{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f200\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f201\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f203\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f204\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f205\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f206\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f207\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Courier New};}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}
{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\ul\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{
\s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 4;}{\s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel4\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 5;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext15 Body Text;}}{\info{\title RANKS OF DIVINE POWER}{\author asmith}{\operator asmith}{\creatim\yr2002\mo10\dy24\hr10\min1}{\revtim\yr2004\mo4\dy15\hr13\min30}{\version48}{\edmins59}{\nofpages8}{\nofwords2619}{\nofchars14931}
{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8229}}\margl1080\margr1080\margt1080\margb1080 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1080
\dgvorigin1080\dghshow1\dgvshow1\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\ul\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\ulnone 
This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{\fs20 
\par }{\fs36\ulnone DOMAINS AND SPELLS
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 ARTIFICE DOMAIN
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 Granted Power:}{\fs20\cf0 
 Gain +4 bonus on Craft checks. The character casts conjuration (creation) spells at +1 caster level. (Those with access to both the Artifice and Creation domains cast conjuration [creation] spells at +3 caster level.)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Artifice Domain Spells
\par }\pard\plain \s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel4\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {1 Animate rope
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 2 Wood shape
\par 3 Stone shape
\par 4 Minor creation
\par 5 Fabricate
\par 6 Major creation
\par 7 Hardening
\par 8 True creation
\par 9 Prismatic sphere
\par }{\fs20\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 CHARM DOMAIN
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 Granted Power:}{\fs20\cf0 
 The character can boost his or her Charisma by 4 points once per day. Activating this power is a free action. The Charisma increase lasts 1 minute.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Charm Domain Spells
\par 1 Charm person
\par 2 Calm emotions
\par 3 Suggestion
\par 4 Emotion
\par 5 Charm monster
\par 6 Geas/quest
\par 7 Insanity
\par 8 Demand
\par 9 Dominate monster
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 COMMUNITY DOMAIN
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 Granted Power:}{\fs20\cf0  Use }{\i\fs20\cf0 calm emotions }{\fs20\cf0 
as a spell-like ability once per day. Gain a +2 competence bonus on Diplomacy checks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Community Domain Spells
\par 1 Bless
\par 2 Shield other
\par 3 Prayer
\par 4 Status
\par 5 Telepathic bond
\par 6 Heroes\rquote  feast
\par 7 Refuge
\par 8 Mass heal
\par 9 Miracle
\par }{\fs20\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 CREATION DOMAIN
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 Granted Power:}{\fs20\cf0 
 Cast conjuration (creation) spells at +2 caster level. (Those with access to both the Artifice and Creation domains cast conjuration (creation) spells at +3 caster level.)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Creation Domain Spells
\par 1 Create water
\par 2 Minor image
\par 3 Create food and water
\par 4 Minor creation
\par 5 Major creation
\par 6 Heroes\rquote  feast
\par 7 Permanent image
\par 8 True creation
\par 9 Genesis
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 DARKNESS DOMAIN
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 Granted Power:}{\fs20\cf0  Free Blind-Fight feat.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Darkness Domain Spells
\par 1 Obscuring mist
\par 2 Blindness
\par 3 Blacklight
\par 4 Armor of darkness
\par 5 Summon monster V (only summons 1d3 shadows)
\par 6 Prying eyes
\par 7 Nightmare
\par 8 Power word, blind
\par 9 Power word, kill
\par }{\fs20\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 GLORY DOMAIN
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 Granted Power:}{\fs20\cf0  Turn undead with a +2 bonus on the turning check and +1d6 to the turning damage roll.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Glory Domain Spells
\par 1 Disrupt undead
\par 2 Bless weapon
\par 3 Searing light
\par 4 Holy smite
\par 5 Holy sword
\par 6 Bolt of glory
\par 7 Sunbeam
\par 8 Crown of glory
\par 9 Gate
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 LIBERATION DOMAIN
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 Granted Power:}{\fs20\cf0 
 The character gains a +2 morale bonus on all saving throws against enchantment spells or effects.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Liberation Domain Spells
\par 1 Remove fear
\par 2 Remove paralysis
\par 3 Remove curse
\par 4 Freedom of movement
\par 5 Break enchantment
\par 6 Greater dispelling
\par 7 Refuge
\par 8 Mind blank
\par 9 Unbinding
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 MADNESS DOMAIN
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 Granted Power:}{\fs20\cf0  The character gains an Insanity score equal to half his or her class level
. For spellcasting (determining bonus spells and DCs), the character uses his or her Wisdom score plus his or her Insanity score in place of Wisdom alone.
\par For all other purposes, such as skills and saves, use Wisdom minus Insanity in place of Wisdom. 
\par Once per day, the character can see and act with the clarity of true madness. Use the character\rquote s Insanity score as a positive rather than a negative modifier on a single roll involving Wisdom. Choose to use this power before the roll is made.

\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Madness Domain Spells
\par 1 Random action
\par 2 Touch of madness
\par 3 Rage
\par 4 Confusion
\par 5 Bolts of bedevilment
\par 6 Phantasmal killer
\par 7 Insanity
\par 8 Maddening scream
\par 9 Weird
\par }{\fs20\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 NOBILITY DOMAIN
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 Granted Power:}{\fs20\cf0  The character ha
s the spell-like ability to inspire allies, giving them a +2 morale bonus on saving throws, attack rolls, ability checks, skill checks, and weapon damage rolls. Allies must be able to hear the character speak for 1 round. Using this ability is a standard 
action. It lasts a number of rounds equal to the character\rquote s Charisma bonus and can be used once per day.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Nobility Domain Spells
\par 1 Divine favor
\par 2 Enthrall
\par 3 Magic vestment
\par 4 Discern lies
\par 5 Greater command
\par 6 Geas/quest
\par 7 Repulsion
\par 8 Demand
\par 9 Storm of vengeance
\par }{\fs20\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 REPOSE DOMAIN
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 The Repose domain is similar to the Death domain,}{\i\fs20\cf0  }{\fs20\cf0 
but is granted by good-aligned deities whose clerics are barred from casting evil spells.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Granted Power:}{\fs20\cf0  The character may use a }{\i\fs20\cf0 death touch }{\fs20\cf0 once per day. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 death touch }{\fs20\cf0 
is a spell-like ability that is a death effect. The character must succeed at a melee touch attack against a living creature (using the rules for touch spells). When the character touches, roll 1d6 per his or her cleric level. If the total at least equals
 the creature\rquote s current hit
\par points, it dies.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Repose Domain Spells
\par 1 Deathwatch
\par 2 Gentle repose
\par 3 Speak with dead
\par 4 Death ward
\par 5 Slay living
\par 6 Undeath to death
\par 7 Destruction
\par 8 Surelife
\par 9 Wail of the banshee
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 RUNE DOMAIN
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 Granted Power:}{\fs20\cf0  Free Scribe Scroll feat.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Rune Domain Spells
\par 1 }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Erase
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 2 }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Secret page
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 3 }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Glyph of warding
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 4 }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Explosive runes
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 5 }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Lesser planar binding
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 6 }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Greater glyph of warding
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 7 }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Instant summons
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 8 }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Symbol
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 9 }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Teleportation circle
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 SCALYKIND DOMAIN
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 Granted Power:}{\fs20\cf0  Rebuke or command animals (reptilian c
reatures and snakes only) as an evil cleric rebukes or commands undead.
\par Use this ability a total number of times per day equal to 3 + Charisma modifier.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Scalykind Domain Spells
\par 1 Magic fang
\par 2 Animal trance\'86
\par 3 Greater magic fang
\par 4 Poison
\par 5 Animal growth\'86
\par 6 Eyebite
\par 7 Creeping doom (composed of tiny snakes)
\par 8 Animal shapes\'86
\par 9 Shapechange
\par \'86Affects ophidian or reptilian creatures only.
\par }{\fs20\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 WEATHER DOMAIN
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 Granted Power:}{\fs20\cf0  Survival is a class skill.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Weather Domain Spells
\par 1 Obscuring mist
\par 2 Fog cloud
\par 3 Call lightning
\par 4 Sleet storm
\par 5 Ice storm
\par 6 Control winds
\par 7 Control weather
\par 8 Whirlwind
\par 9 Storm of vengeance
\par }{\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 NEW SPELLS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Armor Of Darkness
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Abjuration [Darkness]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Darkness 4
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S , D F
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 1 action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Creature touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 10 minutes/level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Will negates (harmless)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (harmless)
\par The spell envelops the warded creature in a shroud of shadows. The shroud can, if the caster desires, conceal the wearer\rquote 
s features. In any case, it grants the recipient a +3 deflection bonus to Armor Class plus an additional +1 for every four caster levels (maximum bonus +8). The subject can see through the armor as if it did not exist and is also afforded darkvision with 
a range of 60 feet. Finally, the subject gains a +2 bonus on saving throws against any holy, good, or light spells or effects.Undead creatures that are subjects of }{\i\fs20\cf0 armor of darkness }{\fs20\cf0 also gain +4 turn resistance.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Blacklight
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Darkness]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Darkness 3, Sor/Wiz 3
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S , M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  A 20-ft.-radius emanation centered on a creature, object, or point in space
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round/level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Will negates or none (object)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes or no (object)
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
The caster creates an area of total darkness. The darkness is impenetrable to normal vision and darkvision, but the caster can see normally within the blacklit area. Creatures outside the spell\rquote s area, even the caster, cannot see through it.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 
The spell can be cast on a point in space, but the effect is stationary cast on a mobile object. A character can cast the spell on a creature, and the effect then radiates from the creature and moves as it moves. Unattended objects and
 points in space do not get saving throws or benefit from spell resistance.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Blacklight }{\fs20\cf0 counters or dispels any light spell of equal or lower level. The 3rd-level cleric spell }{\i\fs20\cf0 daylight }{\fs20\cf0 counters or dispels }{\i\fs20\cf0 blackligh}{\fs20\cf0 t.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Bolt Of Glory
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Good]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Glory 6
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S , D F
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  Ray
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par This spell projects a bolt of energy from the Positive Energy Plane against one creature. The caster must succeed at a ranged touch attack to strike the target. A creature struck suffers varying damage, depending on its nature and home plane of existence:

\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4646 \cellx4538\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1309 \cellx5847\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1775 \cellx7622\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Creature\rquote s Origin/Nature}{\b\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Damage}{\b\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 Maximum Value}{\b\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4646 \cellx4538\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1309 \cellx5847\clvertalt\clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1775 \cellx7622\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4646 \cellx4538\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1309 \cellx5847\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1775 \cellx7622\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Material Plane, Elemental Plane, neutral outsider}{\cf0 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 1d6/2 levels}{\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 7d6}{\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4646 \cellx4538\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1309 \cellx5847\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1775 \cellx7622\row 
}\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Negative Energy Plane, evil outsider, undead creature}{\cf0 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 1d6/level}{\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 15d6}{\cf0 \cell 
}\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4646 \cellx4538\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1309 \cellx5847\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1775 
\cellx7622\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4646 \cellx4538\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1309 \cellx5847\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1775 \cellx7622\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Positive Energy Plane, good outsider}{\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4646 \cellx4538\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1309 \cellx5847\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1775 \cellx7622\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Bolts Of Bedevilment
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Enchantment [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Madness 5
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  One action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  Ray
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round/level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Will negates
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par This spell grants the caster the ability to make one ray attack per round. The ray dazes o
ne living creature, clouding its mind so that it takes no action for 1d3 rounds. The creature is not stunned (so attackers get no special advantage against it), but it can\rquote t move, cast spells, use mental abilities, and so on.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Crown Of Glory
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Evocation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Glory 8
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S , M, D F
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 full round
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Personal
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  120-ft.-radius emanation centered on you
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute/level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Will negates
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par The caster is imbued with an aura of celestial authority, inspiring awe in all lesser creatures.
\par The caster gains a +4 enhancement bonus to his or her Charisma score for the duration of the spell. All creatures with fewer than 8 HD or levels cease whatever they are doing and are compelled to pay attention 
to the caster. Any such creature that wants to take hostile action against the caster must make a successful Will save to do so. Any creature that does not make this saving throw the first time it attempts a hostile action is }{\i\fs20\cf0 enthralled }{
\fs20\cf0 for the duration of the spell (as the }{\i\fs20\cf0 enthrall }{\fs20\cf0 spell), as long as it is in the spell\rquote 
s area, nor will it try to leave the area on its own. Creatures with 8 HD or more may pay attention to the caster, but are not affected by this spell.
\par When the caster speaks, all listeners telepathically understand him or her, even if they do not understand the language. While the spell lasts, the caster can make up to three suggestions to creatures of fewer than 8 HD in range, as if using the }{
\i\fs20\cf0 mass suggestion }{\fs20\cf0 spell (Will save negates); creatures with 8 HD or more aren\rquote t affected by this power. Only creatures within range at the time a }{\i\fs20\cf0 suggestion }{\fs20\cf0 is given are subject to it.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 worth at least 200 gp.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Genesis
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Creation)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Creation 9
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S , M, X P
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 week (8 hours/day)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  180 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  A demiplane on the Ethereal Plane centered on your location
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par This spell creates an immobile, finite plane with limited access\emdash a demi-plane.
\par Demiplanes created by this power are very small, minor planes. A character can cast this spell only on the Ethereal Plane. When he or she casts it, a local density fluctuation precipitates the creation of a demiplane. At first, the demiplane grows at a r
ate of a 1-foot-radius per day to an initial maximum radius of 180 feet as the fledgling plane draws substance from surrounding ethereal vapors and protomatter or astral ectoplasm.
\par The character determines the environment in the demiplane when he or she first casts }{\i\fs20\cf0 genesi}{\fs20\cf0 
s, reflecting most any desire he or she can visualize. The caster determines factors such as atmosphere, water, temperature, and the shape of the general terrain. However, the spell cannot create life, nor can it create construction. If des
ired, these must be brought in by some other fashion.
\par Once the basic demiplane reaches its maximum size, the character can continue to cast this spell to enlarge the demiplane if he or she is inside the boundaries of the demiplane. In such a case, the radi
usof the demiplane increases by 60 feet for each subsequent casting.
\par If the spell is cast again while outside an existing demi-plane, the casting creates a separate bubble that does not touch or overlap any previously created demiplane.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 XP Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 5,000 XP.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Hardening
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 6, Artifice 7
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One item of a volume no greater than 10 cu. ft./level
\par (see text)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Permanent
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (object)
\par This spell increases the hardness of materials.  For every two caster levels, increase by 1 the hardness of the material targeted by the spell. This hardness increase improves only the material\rquote 
s resistance to damage. Nothing else is modified by the improvement.
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 hardening }{\fs20\cf0 spell does not in any way affect resistance to other forms of transformation. 
\par This spell affects up to 10 cubic feet per level of the spellcaster.
\par If cast upon a metal or mineral, the volume is reduced to 1 cubic foot per level.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Maddening Scream
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 8, Madness 8
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  One action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Living creature touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1d4+1 rounds
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par The subject cannot keep him or herself from behaving as though completely mad. This spell makes it impossible for the victim to do anything other than race about caterwauling.
\par The effect worsens the Armor Class of the creature by 4, makes Reflex saving throws impossible except on a roll of 20, and makes it impossible to use a shield.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Rage
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Enchantment
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Madness 3
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  One action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Creature touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round/level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Will negates (harmless)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (harmless)
\par The caster can put a creature into a blood frenzy. In this rage, the creature gains +4 to Strength, +4 to Constitution, and a +2 morale bonus on Will saves. (Unlike a barbarian rage, no penalty to AC is suff
ered, and no fatigue period occurs after the rage is over.)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Surelife
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Abjuration
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Repose 8
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Personal
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  You
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute/2 levels
\par This spell allows the caster to protect him or herself agains
t some condition that would ordinarily cause certain death. The character can only protect him or herself against a natural occurrence or condition, not against a spell or the action of a creature. The character must specify the condition against which he
 
or she wishes to protect him or herself, and the spell is effective only against that condition. Should the character be subjected to that condition during the duration of the spell, he or she feels no discomfort and takes no damage from the condition. Ho
wever, the spell does not protect any items carried on the caster\rquote s person. At the end of the spell\rquote s duration, the condition has full normal effects if the character is still subjected to it.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Touch Of Madness
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Enchantment [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Madness 2
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  One action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Creature touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round/level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Will negates
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par The caster may daze one living creature by making a successful touch attack. If the target creature does not make a successful Will save, its mind is clouded and it takes no action for 1 round per caster level. The dazed subject is not stunned (so attacke
rs get no special advantage against it), but it can\rquote t move, cast spells, use mental abilities, and so on.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 True Creation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Creation)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Creation 8
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S , M, X P
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  10 minutes
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  0 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  Unattended, nonmagical object of nonliving matter, up to
\par 1 cu. ft./level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par The caster creates a nonmagical, unattended object of any sort of 
matter. Items created are permanent and cannot be negated by dispelling magics or negating powers. For all intents and purposes, these items are completely real. The volume of the item created cannot exceed 1 cubic foot per caster level. The caster must s
ucceed at an appropriate skill check to make a complex item.
\par Unlike the items brought into being by the lower-level spells }{\i\fs20\cf0 minor creation }{\fs20\cf0 and }{\i\fs20\cf0 major creatio}{\fs20\cf0 n, objects created by the casting of }{\i\fs20\cf0 true creation }{\fs20\cf0 
can be used as material components.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 XP Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 The item\rquote s gold piece value in XP, or a minimum of 1 XP, whichever is more.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Undeath To Death
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Necromancy
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 6, Clr 6, Repose 6
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S , M, D F
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  Several undead creatures within a 50-ft.-radius burst
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Will negates
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Undeath to death }{\fs20\cf0 
snuffs out the animating forces of undead creatures, killing them instantly. The spell slays 1d4 HD worth of undead creatures per caster level (maximum 20d4). Creatures with the fewest HD are affected first; among creatures with equal HD, those closest to
 the point of origin of the burst are affected first.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 worth at least 500 gp.
\par }}