{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New{\*\falt Courier};}{\f200\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f201\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f203\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f204\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f205\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f206\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f207\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f216\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f217\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr{\*\falt Courier};}{\f219\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek{\*\falt Courier};}{\f220\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f221\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier};}{\f222\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic){\*\falt Courier};}{\f223\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic{\*\falt Courier};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\ul\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 
heading 3;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Body Text;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar
\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Preformatted;}}{\*\revtbl {Unknown;}}{\info{\title Salient Divine Abilities}
{\author AKSmith}{\operator asmith}{\creatim\yr2003\mo1\dy7\hr11\min7}{\revtim\yr2004\mo4\dy15\hr13\min23}{\printim\yr2004\mo4\dy8\hr10\min58}{\version60}{\edmins117}{\nofpages24}{\nofwords13980}{\nofchars-32766}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}
{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8229}}\margl1080\margr1080\margt1080\margb1080 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1080\dgvorigin1080\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\fs20 
This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{\i0\fs20\ul 
\par }{\i0\fs36 SALIENT DIVINE ABILITIES
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
\par A salient divine ability is like a feat\emdash it gives a deity a new capability or improves one that the deity already ha
s. A deity has one salient divine ability for each divine rank the deity has, plus additional salient divine abilities reflecting its status: Demigods receive one bonus ability, lesser deities receive two bonus abilities, intermediate deities receive thre
e, and greater deities receive five. 
\par Some salient divine abilities have prerequisites. Usually, the deity must have all the listed prerequisites to have the ability. A divine rank of 1 is a prerequisite for all salient divine abilities. The most common sal
ient divine abilities are described here. A few deities have unique salient divine abilities that are described in the deity\rquote s individual entry.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20 Using Salient Divine Abilities:}{\fs20  Using a salient divine ability is a standard action unless otherwise noted in the ability description. Using a salient divine ability does not provoke an attack of opportunity.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20 Salient Divine Abilities and Antimagic: }{\fs20 A salient divine ability functions normally within an antimagic field, and is never subject to spell resistance.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Salient Divine Ability Descriptions
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Here is the format for salient divine ability descriptions.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0\caps Ability Name
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisite:}{\fs20 
 A minimum divine rank, minimum ability score, another salient divine ability, a minimum base attack bonus, a feat, a skill, or some
 other condition that a deity must have in order to acquire this salient divine ability. This entry is absent if a salient divine ability has no prerequisite. An ability may have more than one prerequisite. All salient divine abilities have a minimum prer
equisite of divine rank 1. Quasi-deities (rank 0) have no salient divine abilities.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  What the ability enables the deity to do. If a deity has the same ability more than once, its benefits do not stack unless indicated otherwise in the description. I
n general, having a salient divine ability twice is the same as having it once.
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  Additional facts about the ability that may be helpful when using the ability in play.
\par }{\b\fs20 Rest: }{\fs20 Some abilities require the deity to rest afterward. If no rest is required, 
the entry is absent. A resting deity can engage in light activities such as talking or walking at half speed. When attempting anything more strenuous than that, the deity can only take partial actions and suffers a \endash 
6 penalty on all attack rolls, saves, an
d checks. The deity cannot use another ability that requires rest until its current rest requirement is fulfilled. Any time the deity spends performing strenuous activities does not count toward the required rest time. 
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  This entry gives one or more portfolio elements that are associated with the salient divine ability in question. The information is provided as guidance and should not be taken as a rule.
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Alter Form
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 This is an extraordinary ability.
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisite:}{\fs20  Alter Size salient divine ability.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  As a move-equivalent action, the deity can alter its form, including clothing and equipment. The assumed form must be corporeal. The deity\rquote 
s body can undergo a limited physical transmutation, including adding or subtracting one or two limbs. If the form selected has wings, the deity can fly. Likewise, the deity can swim if the form has fins, breathe water if the form has gills, and so on.

\par The deity can remain in the altered form indefinitely, but resumes its own form if slain.
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  The deity\rquote s attack bonus, Armor Class, and saves do not change. The deity does not gain any of the assumed form\rquote 
s special abilities, attack forms, defenses, ability scores, or mannerisms. The deity can change physical qualities (such as hair color, hair
\par texture, skin color, and gender). The deity can use this ability to create disguises, gaining a bonus of +10 on its Disguise checks. The deity can use its Alter Size ability simultaneously along with this one to become taller, shorter, thinner, or he
avier.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Nature, secrets, thieves.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Alter Reality
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisite:}{\fs20  Cha 29.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  This ability is similar to the }{\i\fs20 wish }{\fs20 spell. The deity merely thinks of something and then makes it so. Doing this requires at least a standard action.
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  The deity can duplicate any spell of 9th level or lower as a standard action. The duplicated spell has no material or XP component, and the DC of its saving throw (if one is allowed) is 20 + the deity\rquote s rank + the deity
\rquote s Charisma modifier. 
\par The 
deity also can duplicate a spell with any metamagic feat (so long as the metamagic feat is available to characters of 20th level or lower). This use of the ability requires the deity to rest for 1 round for each level that the feat would normally add to t
he spell. It still takes a standard action to use this ability, so there is no point in using the ability to duplicate a quickened spell. 
\par The deity can render a magical or supernatural effect permanent. The rest requirement varies with the effect: 10 minut
es per level of the effect times the number of subjects affected, 10 minutes per total Hit Dice of creatures affected, or 10 minutes per 10-foot cube affected. Use the highest applicable value. 
\par The deity can create temporary, nonmagical objects. This works like the Create Object ability (including the required rest period), except that the items last one day per rank.
\par The deity also can create permanent nonmagical objects as if using the Create Object ability except that all rest requirements are doubled and there is no reduction in rest time for being on an Outer Plane or in the deity\rquote s own realm. 
\par The deity can create temporary magic items or creatures. This works like the Divine Creation ability (including the required rest period), except that the items
 or creatures created last 1 hour per rank. This ability cannot create permanent magic items or creatures. 
\par The deity can reshape a landscape, creating any type of terrain the deity can imagine. Each 10-foot cube of material to be reshaped requires 1 round of effort, and the deity must rest for one day per 10-foot cube shaped after the work is completed.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Any.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Alter Size
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  As a free action, the deity can assume
 any size from Fine to Colossal. The deity also can change the size of up to 100 pounds of objects it touches. If the deity has a familiar, personal mount, or personal intelligent weapon, the creature can change size with the deity if the deity touches it
, but its weight counts against the deity\rquote s weight limit. This is a supernatural ability.
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  This ability allows the deity to assume any proportions from the size of a grain of sand up or as much as 1,600 feet tall. A radical change in size can have great impact on the deity\rquote s combat ability. The deity\rquote 
s Strength, Armor Class, attack bonus, and damage dealt with weapons changes according to the size the deity assumes. The deity\rquote s Strength
\par score can never be reduced to less than 1 through this ability. Also note that use of this divine ability does not affect all the deities\rquote  characteristics.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Any.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Annihilating Strike
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Divine rank 11, base attack bonus +20, Str 25.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  When the deity strikes with a weapon or natural weapon, the opponent struck might be obliterated. Creatures, attended objects, and magic items must make Fortitude saves (DC 20 + the deity\rquote 
s rank + the damage dealt) or be reduced to \endash 10 hit points and killed outright. Unattended, nonmagical obje
cts are obliterated. The deity can destroy up to 1,000 cubic feet (a 10-foot cube) of nonliving matter per rank, so the ability destroys only part of any very large object or structure targeted.
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  Deities with a rank equal to or greater than the attacking deity are not subject to this ability. This ability has no effect on objects or effects that are not subject to physical attacks.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Death, justice, vengeance, war.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Arcane Mastery
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Spellcaster level 1st, Int 29, Spell Mastery.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity can prepare any wizard spell that it can cast without using a spellbook.
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  This ability gives the deity access to every spell on the sorcerer/wizard spell list, pro
vided that the deity has sufficient wizard levels and a sufficient Intelligence score to cast them. The deity also can invent new sorcerer/wizard spells without researching them.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Knowledge, magic.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Area Divine Shield
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Divine rank 6, Cha 29, Divine Shield salient divine ability.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  Except where noted here, this ability works like the Divine Shield ability. The deity produces a transparent barrier whose area is up to one 10-foot square per rank, or a sphere or
 hemisphere with a radius of up to 1 foot per rank. The barrier can be placed anywhere within the deity\rquote 
s line of sight. The deity can place the barrier so that it is mobile with respect to some unattended object or willing creature. The barrier can be adj
usted to ignore certain types of damage, just as a divine shield can. If the deity makes the shield mobile with respect to a willing creature, the deity also can make the barrier
\par one-way with respect to the creature and its allies, allowing them to attack through the shield and still use its protection.
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  The deity can shape the shield around itself or around a willing creature so that it is skintight, which prevents the subject from being touched.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Mercy, protection.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Automatic Metamagic
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisite:}{\fs20  Spellcaster level 1st.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity chooses one metamagic feat. As a free action, the deity can apply the selected feat to the spells from any one spellcasting class the deity has or to its spell-like abilities. A spell 
altered by the use of this ability does not use up a higher-level slot.
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  The deity must obey all the limitations normally associated with the metamagic feat. Any metamagic feat selected cannot have a level requirement of 21st or higher. Feats that depend on making the spell\rquote 
s level higher, such as Heighten Spell, do not work with this ability. A deity can have this ability multiple times, choosing a metamagic feat and either a spellcasting class or spell-like abilities to which the ability will apply each time.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Knowledge, magic.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Avatar
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Divine rank 6, Cha 29.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  An avatar serves as a deity\rquote s alter ego, effectively allowing the deity to be in two or more places at the same time.
 An avatar is an extension of a deity. The deity senses and knows everything the avatar senses and knows and vice versa. Each avatar counts as a remote location where the deity is sensing and communicating. A lesser deity can have up to five avatars at on
ce, an intermediate deity can have up to ten, and a greater deity can have up to twenty avatars at once. It takes a deity one year to create an avatar or replace a destroyed avatar. The process does not require any special effort on the deity\rquote s

\par part. An avatar must be created in the deity\rquote 
s own realm. If the deity has the Divine Creation salient divine ability, the deity can use it to create a new avatar anywhere. However, the deity must rest afterward as noted in the Divine Creation ability description. An 
avatar is a less powerful version of a deity, created by modifying the deity\rquote s statistics, that has the following characteristics.
\par }{\i\fs20 Divine Rank: }{\fs20 The avatar\rquote s divine rank is half that of the deity (round down). This decrease in divine rank affects many of the avatar\rquote 
s statistics and abilities, including bonuses to attack rolls, damage, saves, checks, and Armor Class, damage reduction, resistances, number of salient divine abilities and bonus salient divine abilities, uses per day of domain powers, saving thro
w DCs against spell-like abilities, range of senses, automatic actions, magic items it can create, and extent of divine aura. The deity\rquote s ability scores, speed, class levels, and Hit Dice are unchanged.
\par }{\i\fs20 Divine Abilities: }{\fs20 The avatar has salient divine abili
ties according to its own divine rank. The deity chooses which of its abilities the avatar has when creating the avatar. The avatar cannot have a salient divine ability that is not available to a deity of its own rank,
\par nor can it use a salient divine ability if it doesn\rquote t meet the prerequisites. An avatar cannot have the Avatar or Possess Mortal salient divine abilities.
\par An avatar does not have any remote sensing or remote communication powers.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Any.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Banestrike
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisite:}{\fs20  Base attack bonus +20.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  Any weapon the deity weilds gains a bonus of +4 on attack rolls, and it deals an extra +4d6 points of damage against the designated foe. The bonus and extra damage stack with any other properties the weapon has.
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  The deity selects one kind of enemy from the list below.
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1892\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4780
\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Aberrations \cell Oozes\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1892\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4780\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1892\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4780\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 
Animals \cell Outsiders, chaotic\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1892\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4780\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Beasts \cell Outsiders, evil\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1892\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4780\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Constructs \cell Outsiders, good\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1892\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4780\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Dragons \cell Outsiders, lawful\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1892\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4780\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Elementals\cell Plants\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1892\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4780\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Fey \cell Undead\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1892\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4780\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Giants \cell Vermin\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1892\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4780\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrv
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1892\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4780\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Monstrous humanoids\cell Humanoids (choose one subtype)\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1892\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4780\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
The ability functions only when the deity personally attacks with a melee weapon or ranged weapon. The deity can apply the Banestrike ability to any weapon or natural weapon, but not to a spell, spell-like ability, supernatural ability, or divine ability.

\par A deity can have this ability multiple times, choosing a different kind of foe each time. The deity can imbue only one bane special ability to a weapon at a time and can change among them once a round as a free action.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Death, justice, vengeance, war.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Battlesense
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20 
 The deity cannot be surprised or flanked except by a deity of higher rank. The deity retains its Dexterity bonus to Armor Class even if caught flat-footed or attacked by an invi
sible opponent, and is not subject to sneak attacks except by deities of higher rank.
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  If the deity has the uncanny dodge or improved uncanny dodge class feature, this ability replaces it.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  War.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Call Creatures
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The kind of creature the deity can call is noted in the deity\rquote 
s description. Each creature called can have no more Hit Dice than the deity has divine ranks, and the deity cannot have more creatures serving it at any given time than the deity has ranks. The creatures are transported to the deity\rquote 
s presence through an interdimensional connection similar to that created by a }{\i\fs20 gate }{\fs20 spell, except that it opens to the Material Plane. The creatures willingly serve to the best of their ability. The calling effect is otherwise similar

\par to the calling property of the }{\i\fs20 gate }{\fs20 spell.
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  A deity can have this ability multiple times, choosing a different kind of creature each time.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Any.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Clearsight
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Divine rank 6, Wis 29.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity can see illusions, transmuted creatures and objects, and disguised creatures or objects for what they really are, provided they are within 10 feet per divine rank of the deity. This ability is similar to the }{\i\fs20 
true seeing }{\fs20 spell, except that it does not reveal creatures\rquote  alignments and it does foil mundane disguises.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Knowledge, truth.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Command Plants
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity can make plants grow in a radius of up to one mile per divine rank once per day. The deity can
 use this ability even in a place where no plants grow, though in this case the plants wither and die after one day. This ability works like the }{\i\fs20 plant growth }{\fs20 
spell, except that it cannot be countered except by a deity of higher rank than the deity using the ability. 
\par Also once per day, the deity can charm plant creatures, animate plants, or make them entangle its foes. This ability functions like the }{\i\fs20 command plants }{\fs20 
spell, except that its maximum duration is one day no matter which option the deity chooses. At any one time, the deity can charm a number of plant creatures equal to its divine rank with this ability, regardless of Hit Dice.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Agriculture, earth, fertility.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Control Creatures
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity can command some kind of creature as noted in the deity\rquote 
s description. This ability is similar to the }{\i\fs20 dominate monster }{\fs20 spell, but it is not a mind-affecting ability (the deity seizes direct control over the creature\rquote s body). Each day the deity can attempt to control a number of c
reature equal to its divine rank. The deity can attempt to take control of that number all at once, or in smaller numbers. All creatures to
\par be affected must be within the deity\rquote s line of sight when first affected. Once control is established, distance is n
ot a factor and the deity can maintain control remotely, even across planes and through wards or barriers (except divine shields and warding spells cast by deities of higher rank than the deity using the ability). The subject is allowed a Will save (DC 10
 + the deity\rquote s rank + the deity\rquote s Charisma modifier) to resist and is allowed a
\par new save if the deity commands the subject to do something against its nature.
\par At any given time, the deity cannot have more creatures under its control than 10 times its divine
 rank. If the deity already has the maximum number of creatures under its control, it can still attempt to take control of other creatures, but must first release
\par one or more creatures already under its control. 
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  A deity can have this ability multiple times, choosing a different kind of creature each time.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Any.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Craft Artifact
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20 
 Craft Magic Arms and Armor, Craft Rod, Craft Staff, Craft Wand, Craft Wondrous Item, Forge Ring, Scribe Scroll.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity can craft magic arms and armor, staffs, wands, wondrous items, rings, and scrolls that exceed the normal limits for such items}{\i\fs20 
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Crafts, knowledge, magic.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Create Object
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Divine rank 6, Int 29.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20 
 As a full-round action, the deity can create one or more simple, nonmagical objects with a total weight of up to 50 pounds per divine rank, or with a total volume of 10 cubic feet per rank. If the deity uses this ability on a divinely morphic plane or wi
thin its own godly realm, double the volume and weight the deity can create. If the deity\rquote s realm is located on a divinely morphic plane, triple the volume and weight the deity can create there.
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  For purposes of this ability, a simple object can have 
no moving parts more complex than a door hinge and must be composed of a single material. The material can be no more valuable than iron (1 sp per pound). Once created, the objects are permanent and nonmagical. If the deity has the appropriate Craft skill
, the deity can make a Craft
\par check when creating the item to make it a masterwork item.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Crafts, creation.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Create Greater Object
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Divine rank 11, Int 29, Create Object salient divine ability.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20 
 As a full-round action, the deity can create objects weighing up to 100 pounds per divine rank, or with a volume of 20 cubic feet per rank. If the deity uses this ability on a divinely morphic plane or within its own godly realm, double the volume and

\par weight the deity can create. If the deity\rquote s realm is located on a divinely morphic plane, triple the volume and weight the deity can create there.
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  This ability works like the Create Object ability, except as noted below. A deity can use this ability to create any kind of nonmagical object.
\par }{\b\fs20 Rest: }{\fs20 The deity must convert a considerable amount of its own energy into the object, which can leave the deity impaired. The deity can create an object with a value of up to 100 gp without impairment. For every addit
ional 100 gp of value (or fraction of 100
\par gp), the deity must rest for 10 minutes. If the deity is creating an item on a divinely morphic plane or within its own godly realm, it can create a 200 gp item without resting. If the deity\rquote s realm is located on a
 divinely morphic plane, it can create a 300 gp item
\par there without having to rest.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Crafts, creation.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Divine Air Mastery
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisite:}{\fs20  Air domain.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity gains a competence bonus on attack rolls, damage, and Armor 
Class equal to its divine rank if both the deity and its foe are airborne. The deity can fly with perfect maneuverability. When flying, the deity can automatically know the location of
\par any corporeal creature within 10 feet per divine rank, by sensing the disturbance in the air the creature causes.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Air, wind.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Divine Archery
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Base attack bonus +20, Dex 29, Point Blank Shot, Far Shot.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity can fire a ranged weapon at any target within line of sight and within range of the deity\rquote 
s personal senses. No range increment applies to the attack. The deity does not incur any attacks of opportunity for firing a bow when threatened. As a full-round action, the deity may fire an arrow at her full base attack bonus 
at each opponent within 10 feet per divine rank. The deity must have the Weapon Focus feat with the type of bow she uses to perform this attack. When shooting a ranged weapon, the deity can ignore any cover bonus to the target\rquote 
s AC or any miss chance conferred by the
\par target\rquote s concealment.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Archers, war.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Divine Armor Mastery
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Armor Proficiency (light), Armor Proficiency (medium).
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity ignores the maximum Dexterity bonus limit for medium or light armor.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  War.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Divine Bard
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisite:}{\fs20  Bard level 20th.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  This ability has several benefits:
\par \bullet  For the deity\rquote s bardic abilities that have a range (countersong, }{\i\fs20 fascinate, }{\fs20 inspire competence, inspire greatness), that range is a number of miles equal to the deity\rquote s divine rank.
\par \bullet  The deity can use any bardic music inspiration ability as a standard action. The inspiration takes effect immediately after the deity concludes the action.
\par \bullet  The deity\rquote s bardic music abilities can affect even those normally immune to mind-affecting effects. However, such creatures gain a +10 bonus on their Will saves to resist such effects.
\par \bullet  The effects of all the deity\rquote s bardic music abilities are d
oubled. Inspire courage grants a +8 morale bonus on saving throws against charm and fear effects and a +8 morale bonus on attack and damage rolls; inspire competence grants a +4 competence bonus on skill checks; inspire greatness grants +4d10 Hit Dice, a 
+
4 competence bonus on attack rolls, and a +2 competence bonus on Fortitude saves, and inspire heroics grants a +8 morale bonus on saving throws and a +8 dodge bonus to AC. The number of allies the deity can affect with inspire competence, inspire greatnes
s, and inspire heroics doubles. When inspiring competence in multiple allies, the deity can choose different skills to inspire for different allies.
\par \bullet  The effects of the deity\rquote s bardic music inspiration abilities last for ten times as long as normal after the deity stops singing. This has no effect on inspiration abilities that have no duration after the bard stops singing.
\par \bullet  When any effect that is subject to countersong (any spell, supernatural ability, or spell-like effect that has the sonic or language-dependent desriptor) occurs within the deity\rquote 
s hearing, the deity can attempt a countersong as if it had prepared an action to do so.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Art, bards, beauty, dance, love, music, poetry.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Divine Battle Mastery
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Fighter
 level 20th, Combat Reflexes, Int 13, Dex 13, Dodge, Expertise, Mobility, Spring Attack, Whirlwind Attack, War domain.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity can make an unlimited number of attacks of opportunity in one round. (The deity still can\rquote t make more than one attack 
of opportunity against a single opponent in a round.) As a full-round action, the deity may make one melee attack at its full base attack bonus against each opponent within reach. The deity does not incur any attacks of opportunity from this action.

\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Justice, vengeance, war.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Divine Blast
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisite:}{\fs20  Cha 29.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity can use this ability a number of times per day equal to 3 + its Charisma bonus. The ray created can extend up to one mile per rank (the deity chooses th
e length). Targets the ray strikes take 1d12 points of damage per rank of the deity, plus 1d12
\par points of damage per point of Charisma bonus the deity has. There is no saving throw, but the deity must make a ranged touch attack to hit a target. The deity ca
n make the ray look, sound, smell, and feel like any-thing it desires. Despite the appearance of the ray,
\par the damage it deals results directly from divine power and is therefore not subject to being reduced by }{\i\fs20 protection from elements }{\fs20 and similar magic.
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  The ray destroys a }{\i\fs20 wall of force, prismatic wall, }{\fs20 or }{\i\fs20 prismatic sphere }{\fs20 it hits (all layers in a prismatic effect are destroyed). The ray itself is unaffected and can strike a target behind the }{
\i\fs20 wall of force }{\fs20 or prismatic effect.
\par A divine shield can stop the ray.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Death, destruction, war.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Divine Blessing
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisite:}{\fs20  Selected ability score 40.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  Choose one ability: Strength, Dexterity, Constitution, Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma. The deity must have a score of at 
least 40 in the selected ability. The deity can grant mortals a +6 enhancement bonus to that ability that lasts for one day. In a single day and at one time, the deity can affect a number of creatures equal to its divine rank.
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  A deity can have this ability multiple times, choosing a different ability score each time.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Agility, beauty, endurance, knowledge, strength, wisdom.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Divine Celerity
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisite:}{\fs20  Dex 29.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity acts as if }{\i\fs20 hasted }{\fs20 for a number of minutes per day equal to its divine rank. The duration of the effect need not be consecutive rounds. Activating this ability is a free action.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Travel, wind.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Divine Creation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Divine rank 16, Int 29, 
Create Object salient divine ability, Create Greater Object salient divine ability.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  As a full-round action, the deity can create mortal creatures or magic items whose total weight is up to 100 pounds per divine rank, or with a total volume of 20 c
ubic feet per rank. If the deity uses this ability on a divinely morphic plane or within its
\par own godly realm, double the volume and weight the deity can create. If the deity\rquote s realm is located on a divinely morphic plane, triple the volume and weight the deity can create there.
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  This ability works like the Create Greater Object ability, except as noted below.
\par A deity can use this ability to create any kind of creature that does not have a divine rank. The deity can create a creature with class levels, but never with more class levels than the deity has itself or the deity\rquote 
s divine rank, whichever is lower.
\par }{\b\fs20 Rest: }{\fs20 The deity must convert a considerable amount of its own energy into a creature, which always leaves the deity impaired. The deity must rest for 10 minutes \'d7the creature\rquote s Hit Dice \'d7the creature\rquote 
s Challenge Rating for each creature created, with a minimum of 10 minutes per creature. If the creature has class levels, each level counts as an additional Hit Die. 
\par The deity can create any kind of magic item except an artifact.
\par The rest requirement for creating magic items is the same as for the Create Greater object ability.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Crafts, creation, supreme.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Divine Dodge
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisite:}{\fs20  Dex 29.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  Any physical attack or individually targeted spell directed at the deity has a percent miss chance equal to 50 + the deity\rquote s rank. Area effects that include the deity have a similar chance to be ineffective.
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  The ability is similar to the }{\i\fs20 blink }{\fs20 spell, except that it is defens
ive only and the deity does not move to the Ethereal Plane, but simply exits from reality for a brief moment. This ability never interferes with the deity\rquote 
s own attacks. If an attack overcomes the miss chance, the deity still gets the benefit of a saving throw (if one is allowed).
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Agility, gambling, luck, protection.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Divine Druid
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Druid level 20th.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  While in a }{\i\fs20 wild shap}{\fs20 e, the deity gains all the extraordinary and supernatural abilities of the creature who
se form it adopts. In addition to animal forms, the deity can take the form of magical beasts or plant creatures. Some deities can assume additional forms. These are specified in the deity\rquote s description.
\par The deity can assume the form of any animal, magical beast, or plant creature from Fine to Colossal in size.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Nature.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Divine Earth Mastery
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Earth domain.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity gains a competence bonus on attack rolls, damage, and Armor Clas
s equal to its divine rank if both the deity and its foe are touching the ground. The deity gains a burrow speed commensurate with its size (see Divine Characteristics), as well as the ability to glide through stone, dirt, or almost any other sort of eart
h
 except metal as easily as a fish swims through water. This burrowing leaves behind no tunnel or hole, nor does it create any ripple or other signs of its presence. The deity has tremorsense, allowing it to automatically sense the location of anything wit
h
in 10 feet per divine rank that is in contact with the ground. The deity has complete control over all things made of earth (including stone and metal). It can alter the form of any amount of earth as a free action. The deity can duplicate the effects of 
the }{\i\fs20 stone shape, move earth, rusting grasp, transmute rock to mud, transmute mud to rock, }{\fs20 and }{\i\fs20 disintegrate }{\fs20 
spells, with any earth, stone, or metal object as a target. The deity can also transmute any object made of earth,
\par stone, or metal into a different kind of earth, stone, or metal. The deity can affect any object it can see, but no more than one object per round.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Earth.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Divine Fast Healing
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Con 29 or the fast healing special quality.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity gains fast healing of 20 + divine rank. Lost limbs or body parts reattach instantly when pressed against the wound on the body.
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  This ability does not stack with the fast healing special quality.
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  A deity can have this ability multiple times, and its effects stack. A deity with two applications of this ability improves its fast healing by 40 + (divine rank \'d72).
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Endurance, healing.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Divine Fire Mastery
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Fire domain.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity gains a competence bonus on attack rolls, damage, and Armor Class equal to its divine rank if both the deity and its foe are touching fire or using weapons with the flaming or flaming burst special abilities.
\par The deity is immune to the effects of fire and heat.
\par The deity can automatically know the location of any corporeal creature within 10 feet per divine rank by sensing the disturbance in the ambient temperature that the creature causes.
\par The deity has complete control over all nonmagical fire and can duplicate the effect of any spell with the fire descriptor as a standard action.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Fire.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Divine Glibness
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Cha 29, Bluff 40 ranks, Trickery domain.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  As a full-round action, the deity can speak and convince others to take some course of action. This works like a }{\i\fs20 mass suggestion }{\fs20 spell cast at a level equal to 10 + the deity\rquote 
s divine rank, except that it affects up to (10 + divine rank) creatures, no two of
\par which can be more than (10 \'d7divine rank) feet apart. The save DC is 10 + the deity\rquote s Charisma modifier + the deity\rquote s divine rank.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Commerce, lies, thieves.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Divine Inspiration
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20 
 The deity can enchant creatures to create a specific emotion. The deity can affect one creature per divine rank at once, and up to the same number each day. All must be within the deity\rquote 
s line of sight when first affected. The specific effects depend on the
\par emotional state induced.
\par }{\i\fs20 Courage: }{\fs20 The enchanted creatures become immune to fear effects and receive a +2 morale bonus on attack rolls, weapon damage rolls, skill checks, and Will saves.
\par }{\i\fs20 Despair: }{\fs20 The enchanted creatures are affected as by an improved version of the }{\i\fs20 crushing despair}{\fs20  spell: affected creatures suffer a \endash 4 penalty on attack rolls, damage rolls, saves, and checks}{\i\fs20  }{\fs20 
unless they make a successful Will save (DC 10 + deity\rquote s Charisma modifier + deity\rquote s divine rank). The effect lasts one day.
\par }{\i\fs20 Dread: }{\fs20 The enchanted creatures must make successful Wisdom checks (DC = the deity\rquote s divine rank) to attack or fight. If the check f
ails, the creature flees in panic for 1d4 rounds. If the check succeeds, the creature does not have to check again for
\par 10 minutes. The enchanted creatures also suffer a \endash 2 morale penalty on attack rolls, weapon damage rolls, skill checks, and Will saves.
\par }{\i\fs20 Frenzy: }{\fs20 
Frenzied creatures spend themselves in drinking, feasting, and dancing unless provoked or incited to violence. Frenzied creatures turn violent if they are attacked or perceive a threat to their safety. Frenzied creatures receive a +4 morale bonus to
 Strength and Dexterity, a \endash 4 penalty to Wisdom, and a \endash 2 penalty to AC. Subjects can attempt Will saves (DC 10 + deity\rquote s Charisma modifier + deity\rquote s divine rank) to resist the effect. This is a mind-affecting compulsion.

\par }{\i\fs20 Hope: }{\fs20 The enchanted creatures gain a +4 morale bonus on saving throws, attack rolls, ability checks, skill checks, and weapon damage rolls.
\par }{\i\fs20 Rage: }{\fs20 The enchanted creatures receive a +4 morale bonus to Strength and Constitution scores, a +2 morale bonus on Will saves, and a \endash 2 penalty to AC.
 They are compelled to fight heedless of danger. Subjects can attempt Will saves (DC 10 + deity\rquote s Charisma
\par modifier + deity\rquote s divine rank) to resist the effect. This is a mind-affecting compulsion.
\par }{\i\fs20 Love and Desire: }{\fs20 A love effect causes the target to fall in love with the specified creature, seeking every opportunity to be near that creature and making every effort to win the creature\rquote 
s affection. A desire effect is similar, but the target seeks any opportunity to
\par become physically intimate with the specified creature. Subjects can attempt Will saves (DC 10 + deity\rquote s Charisma modifier + deity\rquote s divine rank) to resist the effect. This is a mind-affecting compulsion effect.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Any.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Divine Monk
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Monk level 20th.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity\rquote 
s unarmed strikes are treated as a magic slashing weapon with an enhancement bonus of +5 and the keen, lawful, and vorpal qualities. If the deity chooses, a particular attack can be bludgeoning instead of slashing, but the keen and vorpal qualit
ies do not apply to that attack. Any unarmed attack the deity makes has a base damage of 2d12.
\par The deity can use the Deflect Arrows feat to deflect any ranged attacks (including spells that require ranged touch attacks) as if they were arrows. The deity ca
n deflect any number of attacks in a single round. When the deity deflects any attack, the attack is reflected upon the attacker, using the deity\rquote s base ranged attack bonus. When the deity deflects a spell, the spell\rquote 
s level is added to the DC to deflect the attack.  The deity only gains the second benefit of this ability if he or she has the Deflect Arrows feat.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Law.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Divine Paladin
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Paladin level 20th.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity\rquote s aura of courage grants a +8 morale bonus on saving throws against fear effects and extends to all allies within 100 feet of the deity. 
\par The deity\rquote s special mount, if any, gains the celestial template. 
\par The deity can smite evil ten times per day, and gets an extra 3 points of damage per class level on a successful smite attempt.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Good, justice, law, nobility, war.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Divine Radiance
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisite:}{\fs20  Good alignment, Sun domain.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity can shed light in a (10 feet \'d7divine rank) emanation from its body. This light
 counters and dispels all darkness effects (unless created by a deity of higher rank) and causes pain and damage to undead creatures, who take 2d8 points of damage per round with no save. As a full attack action, the deity can generate up to three rays of
 scorching light that can strike targets up to a number of miles away equal to the deity\rquote s divine rank. Each ray deals 1d6 points of damage per 2 divine ranks. Undead take 1d12 points of damage per 2 divine ranks.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Good, light, sun.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Divine Rage
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisite:}{\fs20  Barbarian level 20th.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  This ability is similar to the barbarian\rquote s rage ability (and it replaces the barbarian rage ability for the deity). The deity can activate this ability 
only after suffering damage from a weapon, and can use it a number of times per day equal to its divine rank. Once used, the ability lasts 1 hour (though the deity can end the rage at will). While raging, the deity gains +10 to Strength, +10 to Constituti
on, and a +5 morale bonus on Will saves. The deity\rquote 
s spell resistance and energy resistances each increase by +10. The deity also can make one extra attack, at its full attack bonus, whenever it uses the full attack action. While raging, the deity suffers a \endash 
5 penalty to Armor Class and cannot perform acts that require patience and concentration, such as moving silently, casting spells, and using salient divine abilities.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Destruction, rage, strength, war.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Divine Ranger
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Ranger level 20th, Wis 25, Wilderness Lore 40 ranks, Knowledge (nature) 30 ranks.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  Any weapon the deity wields against one of its favored enemies is treated as a bane weapon against that creature type. Thus, its enhancement bonus is increased by +2 and it deals +2d6 points of damage.
\par The deity can follow tracks at its normal land speed. It treats all normal terrain as very soft ground for purposes of tracking and ignores DC modifiers for time or weather. The deity can track creatures across w
ater, underwater, or through the air by means of the minute disturbances they make and traces of their passage. The table below adds across water, underwater, and air to the list of surfaces found in the Track feat description.
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1366 \cellx1258\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth616 \cellx1874\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0 \b\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Surface\cell }\pard 
\s2\qr \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 DC\cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1366 \cellx1258\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth616 
\cellx1874\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1366 \cellx1258\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth616 \cellx1874\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Across water\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 60\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1366 \cellx1258\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth616 \cellx1874\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Underwater \cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 80\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1366 \cellx1258\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth616 \cellx1874\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1366 \cellx1258\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth616 \cellx1874\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Air \cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 120\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1366 \cellx1258\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth616 \cellx1874\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Archers, hunting, nature.

\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Divine Recall
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20 
 The deity remembers every event of a certain type that has ever occurred. The type of event is specified in the deity description.
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  A deity can have this ability multiple times, choosing a different type of event each time.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Knowledge.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Divine Rogue
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Rogue level 20th, Dodge, improved evasion, defensive roll.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  When struck by an attack from an opponent the deity has designated as its dodge target, the deity may make a Reflex save (DC 10 + damage dealt) to negate all damage from the attack.
\par If the deity passes within 5 feet of a trap, the deity is entitled to a Search check to notice it as if the deity were actively looking for it.
\par The deity can assess the exact value of any treasure it can see.
\par The deity also can immediately determine what any creature is carrying and where each carried item is.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Thieves.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Divine Shield
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Cha 29.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  As a free action, the deity can create a shield that lasts 10 minutes and protects the deity\rquote s body and equipment from attacks. The shield stops 10 points of damage per rank. Once the shield stops that much damage
, it collapses. The damage can be from any source, including a divine blast attack. The deity can use this ability a number of times per day equal to 3 + its Constitution bonus.
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  The deity can adjust the shield so that it does not block damage the deity ignores anyway. The effects of multiple divine shields do not stack.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Protection.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Divine Skill Focus
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  23 ranks in the selected skill.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity receives a bonus of 10 + its divine rank when using the skill selected.
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  This bonus stacks with the divine rank bonus deities normally receive on checks. If the selected skill is related to the deity\rquote s portfolio, add the deity\rquote s rank to the maximum DC for a free action.
\par A deity can have this ability multiple times, choosing a different skill each time.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Any.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Divine Sneak Attack
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Sneak attack +10d6, crippling strike.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity\rquote s sneak attacks deal an additional +3d6 points of damage.
\par Any attack of opportunity the deity makes is considered a sneak attack.
\par The deity can flank or catch flat-footed any opponent whose divine rank does not exceed the deity\rquote s and can sneak attack that opponent. Th
e deity cannot deal sneak attack damage to opponents that are immune to critical hits. Any time the deity inflicts damage with a sneak attack, that target suffers damage equal to the deity\rquote s sneak attack bonus
\par damage on the deity\rquote s next turn as well. 
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Thieves.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Divine Spell Focus
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Spell Focus, Greater Spell Focus.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity chooses one school of magic. The save DC for any spell of that school increases by one-half the deity\rquote s divine rank. This bonus overlaps (does not stack with) the bonus from Spell Focus or Greater Spell Focus.

\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  A deity can have this ability multiple times, choosing a different school of magic each time.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Magic.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Divine Spellcasting
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Spellcaster level 20th.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity can cast spells whose effective level is above 9th. The number of spells per day the deity can cast of each spell level above 9th depends on the deity\rquote 
s key ability score for spell-casting classes in which the deity has achieved 20th level, as shown
\par on Table: Divine Spellcasting. The numbers on that table represent one spell per day at each spell level above 9th in which it receives bonus spells from its key ability score, plus
\par bonus spells based on the key ability score. The deity can use these slots for spells prepared or cast with a metamagic feat, or for lower-level spells. 
\par If the deity has achieved 20th level in a spellcasting class with fewer than nine levels of spells (such as bard, paladin, or ranger), the
 deity can also cast one spell per day of each level between the maximum normal spell level and 9th, plus appropriate bonus spells
\par of each level based on the deity\rquote s key ability score. These spells are not shown on the table. 
\par The deity also doesn\rquote t incur attacks of opportunity for casting spells when threatened.
\par In addition, the deity receives the benefit of the Spell Focus feat on any spell it casts.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Magic.
\par }{\fs20\cf8 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\caps\fs20 Spell Slots Above 9th Level
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 The Divine Spellcasting ability grants
 deities access to spell slots above 9th level (which can be used to hold lower-level spells or spells whose level has been increased above 9th by the use of metamagic feats). The number of spell slots available to a deity depends on the deity\rquote 
s key ability score (Intelligence for wizards, Wisdom for clerics, druids, paladins, and rangers, and Charisma for bards and sorcerers), as shown on Table: Divine Spellcasting.
\par Even though the table only includes ability scores up to 61 and spell slots up to 25th leve
l, the progression continues infinitely in both directions. For ability scores beyond 61, or for spell slots above 25th level, expand the table to follow the same patterns
\par as shown.
\par The numbers on this table include bonus spells that a deity receives for h
aving a sufficiently high ability score, as well as one additional spell of each level at which the deity gains at least one bonus spell. This additional spell is one of the benefits of the
\par Divine Spellcasting salient divine ability.
\par  
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Table: Divine Spellcasting
\par }\trowd \trqc\trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth11204\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1666 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth9538 \cellx11096\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 \cell }{\b\fs20 \emdash \emdash \emdash \emdash \emdash \emdash \emdash \emdash 
\emdash \emdash \emdash \emdash \emdash \emdash \emdash  Spells per Day \emdash \emdash \endash \emdash \emdash \emdash \emdash \emdash \emdash \emdash \endash \emdash \emdash \emdash \emdash \emdash \emdash \emdash \emdash \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trqc\trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth11204\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1666 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth9538 \cellx11096\row }\trowd \trqc\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth11204\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth694 \cellx586\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth972 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2152\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2746\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3934\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4528\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5122\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6310
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6904\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7498\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx8092\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8653\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9292\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9908\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10502\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx11096\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20 Score\cell Modifier\cell 10th\cell 11th\cell 12th\cell 13th\cell 14th\cell 15th\cell 16th\cell 17th\cell 18th\cell 19th\cell 20th\cell 21st\cell 22nd\cell 23rd\cell 24th\cell 25th\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trqc\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth11204\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth694 \cellx586\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth972 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2152
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2746\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx3934\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4528\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5122\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6310\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6904\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7498\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8092\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8653\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9292\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9908\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10502
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx11096\row }\trowd \trqc\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth11204\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth742 \cellx634\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth924 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2152\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2746\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3934\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4528\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5122\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6310\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6904
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7498\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8092\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx8653\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9292\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9908\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10502\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx11096\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 10\endash 11\cell +0\cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell 
\emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trqc\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth11204\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth742 \cellx634\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth924 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2152
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2746\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx3934\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4528\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5122\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6310\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6904\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7498\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8092\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8653\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9292\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9908\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10502
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx11096\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 12\endash 13\cell +1\cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell 
\emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd 
\trqc\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth11204\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth742 \cellx634\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth924 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2152\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx2746\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3934\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4528\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5122\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6310\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6904\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7498\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8092\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8653\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9292
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9908\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10502\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx11096\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 14\endash 15\cell +2\cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash 
\cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trqc\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth11204\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth742 \cellx634\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth924 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2152\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2746\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3934\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4528\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5122\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6310
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6904\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7498\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx8092\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8653\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9292\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9908\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10502\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx11096\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 16\endash 17\cell +3\cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell 
\emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trqc\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth11204\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth742 \cellx634\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth924 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2152\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2746\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3934\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4528\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5122\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6310
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6904\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7498\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx8092\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8653\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9292\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9908\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10502\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx11096\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 18\endash 19\cell +4\cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell 
\emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trqc\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth11204\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth742 \cellx634\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth924 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2152\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2746\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3934\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4528\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5122\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6310
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6904\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7498\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx8092\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8653\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9292\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9908\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10502\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx11096\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 20\endash 21\cell +5\cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell 
\emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trqc\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth11204\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth742 \cellx634\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth924 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2152\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2746\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3934\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4528\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5122\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6310
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6904\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7498\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx8092\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8653\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9292\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9908\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10502\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx11096\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 22\endash 23\cell +6\cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell 
\emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trqc\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth11204\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth742 \cellx634\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth924 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2152\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2746\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3934\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4528\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5122\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6310
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6904\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7498\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx8092\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8653\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9292\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9908\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10502\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx11096\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 24\endash 25\cell +7\cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell 
\emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trqc\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth11204\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth742 \cellx634\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth924 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2152\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2746\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3934\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4528\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5122\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6310
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6904\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7498\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx8092\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8653\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9292\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9908\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10502\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx11096\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 26\endash 27\cell +8\cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell 
\emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trqc\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth11204\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth742 \cellx634\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth924 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2152\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2746\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3934\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4528\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5122\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6310
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6904\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7498\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx8092\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8653\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9292\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9908\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10502\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx11096\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 28\endash 29\cell +9\cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell 
\emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trqc\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth11204\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth742 \cellx634\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth924 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2152\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2746\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3934\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4528\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5122\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6310
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6904\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7498\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx8092\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8653\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9292\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9908\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10502\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx11096\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 30\endash 31\cell +10\cell 2\cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash 
\cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trqc\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth11204\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth742 \cellx634\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth924 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2152\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2746\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3934\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4528\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5122\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6310
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6904\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7498\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx8092\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8653\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9292\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9908\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10502\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx11096\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 32\endash 33\cell +11\cell 2\cell 2\cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell 
\emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trqc\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth11204\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth742 \cellx634\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth924 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2152\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2746\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3934\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4528\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5122\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6310
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6904\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7498\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx8092\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8653\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9292\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9908\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10502\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx11096\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 34\endash 35\cell +12\cell 2\cell 2\cell 2\cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash 
\cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trqc\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth11204\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth742 \cellx634\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth924 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2152\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2746\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3934\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4528\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5122\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6310
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6904\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7498\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx8092\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8653\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9292\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9908\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10502\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx11096\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 36\endash 37\cell +13\cell 2\cell 2\cell 2\cell 2\cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell 
\emdash \cell \emdash \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trqc\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth11204\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth742 \cellx634\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth924 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2152\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2746\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3934\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4528\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5122\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6310\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6904
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7498\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8092\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx8653\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9292\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9908\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10502\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx11096\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 38\endash 39\cell +14\cell 3\cell 2\cell 2\cell 2\cell 2\cell 
\emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd 
\trqc\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth11204\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth742 \cellx634\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth924 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2152\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx2746\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3934\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4528\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5122\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6310\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6904\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7498\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8092\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8653\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9292
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9908\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10502\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx11096\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 40\endash 41\cell +15\cell 3\cell 3\cell 2\cell 2\cell 2\cell 2\cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash 
\cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trqc\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth11204\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth742 \cellx634\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth924 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2152\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2746\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3934\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4528\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5122\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6310
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6904\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7498\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx8092\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8653\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9292\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9908\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10502\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx11096\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 42\endash 43\cell +16\cell 3\cell 3\cell 3\cell 2\cell 2\cell 2\cell 2\cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash 
\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trqc\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth11204\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth742 \cellx634\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth924 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2152\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2746\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3934\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4528\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5122\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6310\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6904
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7498\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8092\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx8653\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9292\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9908\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10502\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx11096\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 44\endash 45\cell +17\cell 3\cell 3\cell 3\cell 3\cell 2\cell 2
\cell 2\cell 2\cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trqc\trgaph108\trleft-108
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth11204\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth742 \cellx634\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth924 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2152\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2746\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3934\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4528
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5122\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx6310\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6904\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7498\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8092\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8653\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9292\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9908\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10502\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx11096\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 46\endash 47\cell +18\cell 4\cell 3\cell 3\cell 3\cell 3\cell 2\cell 2\cell 2\cell 2\cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trqc\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth11204\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth742 \cellx634\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth924 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2152
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2746\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx3934\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4528\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5122\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6310\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6904\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7498\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8092\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8653\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9292\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9908\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10502
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx11096\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 48\endash 49\cell +19\cell 4\cell 4\cell 3\cell 3\cell 3\cell 3\cell 2\cell 2\cell 2\cell 2\cell 
\emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trqc\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth11204\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth742 \cellx634\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth924 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2152\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2746\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3934\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4528\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5122\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6310
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6904\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7498\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx8092\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8653\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9292\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9908\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10502\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx11096\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 50\endash 51\cell +20\cell 4\cell 4\cell 4\cell 3\cell 3\cell 3\cell 3\cell 2\cell 2\cell 2\cell 2\cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trqc\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth11204\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth742 \cellx634\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth924 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2152
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2746\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx3934\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4528\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5122\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6310\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6904\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7498\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8092\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8653\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9292\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9908\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10502
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx11096\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 52\endash 53\cell +21\cell 4\cell 4\cell 4\cell 4\cell 3\cell 3\cell 3\cell 3\cell 2\cell 2\cell 2
\cell 2\cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trqc\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth11204\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth742 \cellx634\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth924 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2152\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2746\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3934\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4528\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5122\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6310
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6904\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7498\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx8092\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8653\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9292\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9908\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10502\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx11096\row }\pard\plain 
\s15\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 \fs20\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {54\endash 55\cell +22\cell 5\cell 4\cell 4\cell 4\cell 4\cell 3\cell 3\cell 3\cell 3\cell 2\cell 2\cell 2\cell 2\cell \emdash \cell \emdash 
\cell \emdash \cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 \trowd \trqc\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth11204\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth742 \cellx634\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth924 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2152\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2746\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3934\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4528\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5122\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6310
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6904\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7498\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx8092\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8653\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9292\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9908\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10502\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx11096\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 56\endash 57\cell +23\cell 5\cell 5\cell 4\cell 4\cell 4\cell 4\cell 3\cell 3\cell 3\cell 3\cell 2\cell 2\cell 2\cell 2\cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trqc\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth11204\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth742 \cellx634\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth924 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2152
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2746\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx3934\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4528\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5122\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6310\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6904\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7498\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8092\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8653\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9292\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9908\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10502
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx11096\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 58\endash 59\cell +24\cell 5\cell 5\cell 5\cell 4\cell 4\cell 4\cell 4\cell 3\cell 3\cell 3\cell 3
\cell 2\cell 2\cell 2\cell 2\cell \emdash \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trqc\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth11204\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth742 \cellx634\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth924 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2152\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2746\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3934\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4528\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5122\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6310
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6904\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7498\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx8092\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8653\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9292\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9908\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10502\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx11096\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 60\endash 61\cell +25\cell 5\cell 5\cell 5\cell 5\cell 4\cell 4\cell 4\cell 4\cell 3\cell 3\cell 3\cell 3\cell 2\cell 2\cell 2\cell 2\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trqc\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth11204\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth742 \cellx634\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth924 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2152
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2746\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx3934\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4528\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5122\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6310\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6904\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7498\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8092\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8653\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9292\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9908\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10502
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx11096\row }\trowd \trqc\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth11204\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth742 \cellx634\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth924 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2152\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx2746\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3934\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4528\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5122\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6310\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6904\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7498\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8092\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8653\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9292\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9908\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10502\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx11096\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 
etc. . . \cell \cell \cell \cell \cell \cell \cell \cell \cell \cell \cell \cell \cell \cell \cell \cell \cell \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trqc\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth11204\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth742 \cellx634\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth924 \cellx1558
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2152\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2746\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx3934\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4528\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5122\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6310\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6904\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7498\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8092\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8653\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9292\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx9908\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10502\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx11096\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\cf8 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Divine Splendor
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Divine rank 16, Cha 26.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  Any mortal who approaches within 10 feet per divine rank of the deity in its natural form dies immediately, with no saving throw.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Supreme.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Divine Storm
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisite:}{\fs20  Divine rank 11.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity can surround itself with a vortex of holy or unholy force that manifests in different forms depending on the deity. The vortex ext
ends from the deity in an emanation with a radius of 10 feet per divine rank. The effect stops attacks with thrown weapons and projectiles (they fail if made by creatures inside the area, or targeted at creatures within the area, or if their paths take th
em through the area).
\par In addition, the force expels creatures whose alignment on the ethical (lawful-chaotic) axis is opposite the deity\rquote s. If the deity\rquote s ethical alignment is neutral (neutral good or neutral evil), the force does not expel any creatures. A
ffected creatures in the area must make Fortitude saves (DC 10 + the deity\rquote s Charisma modifier + the deity\rquote s divine rank) or be picked up and thrown out, regardless of size. Such creatures suffer 1d6 points of
\par damage for each 10 feet they travel. Creatures
 that make successful saves are not affected by the vortex for one day, although the vortex still stops their thrown weapons and projectiles. Creatures that fail their saves can attempt to reenter the area, but must attempt new saves.
\par The force damages creatures whose alignment on the moral (good-evil) axis is opposite the deity\rquote s. If the deity\rquote 
s moral alignment is neutral (lawful neutral or chaotic neutral), the force does not damage any creatures. Affected creatures in the area must make Fortitude saves (DC 10 + the deity\rquote s Charisma modifier + the deity\rquote 
s divine rank) each round or suffer 1 point of holy damage per divine rank. A successful save negates the damage, but the creature must save again the next round if it is still within the area.
\par Creatures whose alignment is diametrically opposed to the deity\rquote s are subject to both effects.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  War.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Divine Water Mastery
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Water domain.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity gains a competence bonus on attack, damage, and Armor Class equal to its divine rank if both the deity and its foe are touching the same body of water.
\par The deity gains a swim speed commensurate with its size (see Divine Characteristics).
\par At will, as a full-round action, the deity can create a devastating tidal wave of water. On land, the wave has effects similar to a flash flood: Creatures caught in the water must
\par make a Fortitude save (DC 15). Large or smaller creatures that fail the save are swept
\par away, taking 1d6 points of subdual damage per round (1d3 points on a successful
\par Swim check against DC 20). Huge creatures that fail are knocked down, while Gar-gantuan and Colossal creatures are checked. The wave destroys all wooden buildings and
\par 25% of the stone buildings it comes into contact with. At sea, the tidal wave capsizes ships and crushes them to splinters. The wave affects a number of miles of coastland up to the deity\rquote s divine rank. 
\par When touching water, the deity can automatically sense the location of anything within 10 feet per divine rank that is in contact with the same body of water.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Water.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Divine Weapon Focus
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20 
 This ability works like the Weapon Focus feat except that the deity receives a bonus of +4 on attacks with the weapon. 
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  This bonus stacks with the divine rank bonus deities get on attack rolls, and with the Divine Weapon Mastery salient divine ability. It also stacks with the Weapon Focus and Greater Weapon Focus feats.
\par A deity can have this ability multiple times, choosing a different kind of weapon each time.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  War.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Divine Weapon Mastery
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Fighter level 20th, War domain.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity receives the benefits of the Weapon Focus, Weapon Specialization, and Improved Critical feats when wielding any simple or martial weapon. 
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  War.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Divine Weapon Specialization
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Base attack bonus +20, Divine Weapon Focus salient divine ability with the selected weapon.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  This ability works like the fighter\rquote s Weapon Specialization feat, except that the deity receives a bonus on damage with the weapon equal to its divine rank.
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  If the selected weapon is a ranged weapon, the extra damage applies against any target the deity can see.
\par The damage bonus from this ability stacks with the damage bonus from the Divine Weapon Mastery ability and the Weapon Specialization and Greater Weapon Specialization feats.
\par A deity can have this ability multiple times, choosing a different kind of weapon each time.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  War.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Energy Burst
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity can create an emanation of a specific type of energy (acid, cold, electricity, fire, or 
sonic energy, specified in the deity\rquote 
s description) with a radius of 10 feet per divine rank. Anything in the area takes 1d8 points of the appropriate energy damage per divine rank. Damage is halved for those who make successful saving throws (Reflex for a
cid, cold, electricity, or fire, or Fortitude for sonic energy; DC 10 + the deity\rquote s divine rank + the deity\rquote s Constitution modifier).
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  A deity can have this ability multiple times, choosing a different type of energy each time.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Nature.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Energy Storm
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisite:}{\fs20  Divine rank 11.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity can surround itself with a vortex of energy (acid, cold, electricity, fire, sonic, positive, or negative energy, specified in the deity\rquote s description). The vortex extends from t
he deity in an emanation with a radius of 10 feet per divine rank. The effect
\par stops attacks with thrown weapons and projectiles. Such attacks fail if made by creatures inside the area, or targeted at creatures within the area, or if their paths take them through the area.
\par Energy storms that use acid, cold, electricity, fire, or sonic energy deal 1 point of energy damage and 1 point of holy damage per divine rank each round.
\par Positive energy deals 1 point of damage per divine rank to undead creatures, and heals the same amount of damage on living creatures.
\par Negative energy deals 1 point of negative energy per divine rank to living creatures, and heals the same amount of damage on undead creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  A deity can have this ability multiple times, choosing a different type of energy each time.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Fire, storms.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Extra Domain
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisite:}{\fs20  Divine rank 6.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity chooses one domain to add to its list of domains. The deity can grant spells and powers from that domain and use those spells and powers personally, just as it can the spells and powers of its other domains.
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  A deity can have this ability multiple times, choosing a new domain each time.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Any.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Extra Energy Immunity
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Divine rank 6, resistance to the energy type selected.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity gains immunity to acid, cold, electricity, fire, or sonic energy.
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  This ability is effective even if the attacker is a deity of higher rank.
\par A deity can have this ability multiple times, choosing a different form of energy each time.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Any.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Extra Sense Enhancement
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Wis 29.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity chooses one sense to enhance. The ability can extend a sense\rquote 
s range one mile per divine rank, or it can allow the sense to ignore one type of physical or magical blockage. The enhanced sense can penetrate 10 feet of a physical barrier per rank or 100 feet of a less tangible barrier (such as fog or smoke) per rank.

\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  Some deities have specific applications of this ability that go beyond the normal senses.
\par A deity can have this ability multiple times, choosing a different sense each time.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Any.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Footsore
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Travel domain.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity can sap the energy from living creatures so that they feel tired. It can affect up to one creature per divine rank at once, but no more than one creature per divine rank each day. All must be within the deity\rquote 
s line of sight when first affected. Subjects
\par can attempt Fortitude saves (DC 10 + deity\rquote s Charisma modifier + deity\rquote s divine rank). Creatures who fail their saves become fatigued and their speed is reduced by half. Furthermore, any mount or vehicle they ride is likewise slowed. The 
effect lasts one day.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Travel.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Free Move
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Dex 29, Divine Celerity salient divine ability.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity can move up to its speed once a round as a free action.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Travel.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Frightful Presence
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Cha 24.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  Whenever the deity performs a specific action specified in the deity\rquote s description (usually attacking, but sometimes making an intimidating gesture), foes within a 30-foot-radius burst must make Will saves (DC 10 + deity
\rquote s Charisma modifier + deity\rquote s divine rank). Foes within the burst, but not the deity\rquote s immediate target,
 become shaken for 3d6 rounds if they fail their saves. Creatures the deity attacks when it activates the ability become panicked for 3d6 rounds if they fail their saves. Foes who make successful saving throws are unaffected by this ability for one day.

\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Destruction, war.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Gift of Life
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20 
 The deity restores the dead creature to life, no matter how long the creature has been dead or what the condition of the body.
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  This ability works like the }{\i\fs20 true resurrection }{\fs20 spell, except that there is no material component and the amount of time the subject has been dead is irrelevant.
\par This ability can restore a creature to life against its will, but only with the permission of whatever deity rules the underworld or the divine realm where the mortal\rquote 
s soul resides. This ability can resurrect an elemental or outsider and can resurrect a creature whose soul is trapped, provided the soul is not held by a deity of higher rank than the one using this ability.
\par This ability cannot restore life to a creature that has been slain by the Hand of Death ability or the Life and Death ability of a deity with a higher rank.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Healing, life.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Grow Creature
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  This ability works like the }{\i\fs20 animal growth }{\fs20 spell, except tha
t it can affect up to one creature of the specified type per divine rank each day, all of which must be within the deity\rquote s line of sight when first affected. The effect lasts one day.
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  A deity can have this ability multiple times, choosing a different type of creature each time.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Nature.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Hand of Death
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity points to any mortal within the deity\rquote 
s sensory range and snuffs out its life. There must be an unbroken line of effect between the deity and the target.
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  This ability works like the }{\i\fs20 destruction }{\fs20 spell, except that there is no material component. The mortal is allowed a Fortitude saving throw with a DC of 20 + the deity\rquote s Charisma bonus + the deity\rquote 
s divine rank. Even if the save succeeds, the subject 
takes 10d6 points of damage, which may kill it anyway. If the attack kills the mortal (either through a failed saving throw or through damage), the mortal cannot be raised or resurrected afterward, except by a deity of equal or higher rank using the Gift 
of Life, Life and Death, or Mass Life and Death salient divine ability.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Death.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Increased Damage Reduction
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Con 29.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity\rquote s damage reduction increases 5 and adds an alignment requirement opposed to the deity\rquote 
s alignment to bypass the damage reduction. For example, a lawful good deity with DR25/epic would gain DR 30/epic and evil or DR 30 epic and chaotic. 
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  A deity cannot chose this ability more than once.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Any.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Increased Energy Resistance
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity gains resistance equal to its divine rank to acid, cold, electricity, fire, or sonic energy. 

\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20 
 A deity can have this ability multiple times, choosing a different form of energy each time. The deity also can have this ability more than once for a single type of energy. When applied to an energy type that the deity already resists, this ability incr
eases the resistance by 10. 
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Any.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Increased Spell Resistance
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity\rquote s spell resistance increases by 20.
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  A deity can have this ability multiple times, and its effects stack. A deity with two applications of this ability improves its spell resistance by 40.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Magic.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Indomitable Strength
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisite:}{\fs20  Str 40, Strength domain.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  If required to make an opposed roll involving Strength (including grapple checks), the deity receives a divine bonus of +25 on its roll. This bonus stacks with the normal divine rank bonus.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Strength.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Instant Counterspell
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  When any spell is cast within the deity\rquote s line of sight, the deity can counterspell it as a fre
e action, provided that the deity is capable of casting the spell immediately or has it as a spell-like ability and makes the required Spellcraft check. The use of Instant
\par Counterspell counts against the normal number of free actions the deity is allowed each round.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Magic.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Instant Move
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Divine rank 6, Dex 29.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  As a move action, the deity can travel up to 30 feet per divine rank, as though using the }{\i\fs20 dimension door }{\fs20 spell, except that the deity never appears
 within a solid object and can act immediately after teleporting.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Travel.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Irresistible Blows
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Weapon Focus and Improved Critical with the selected melee weapon.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  When the deity makes a melee attack with 
the chosen weapon against a creature, resolve the attack as a melee touch attack (the weapon blow ignores armor and natural armor bonuses). If the weapon hits, the creature struck must make a Fortitude save (DC 10 + the deity\rquote 
s Constitution modifier + the deity\rquote s divine rank) or be stunned for 1d10 rounds. 
\par }{\fs20 The deity\rquote s attacks with the chosen weapons are considered to be adamantine for purposes of bypassing damage reduction and hardness}{\fs20\cf6 .
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  A deity can have this ability multiple times, choosing a different kind of weapon each time.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  War.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Irresistible Performance
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Perform 40 ranks.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20 
 When the deity sings, plays a musical instrument, tells jokes, recites verse, or engages in any other type of performance as a full-round action, the deity has the option to create any of the following effects. The deity can use this ability a number of 
times per
\par day equal to its divine rank. It affects up to one creature per divine rank within a burst with a radius of 10 feet per divine rank, centered on the deity.
\par \bullet  Affected creatures become unable to take actions; instead, they dance, observe the performance with rapt attention, laugh, or applaud at the deity\rquote s option. The affected creatures also suffer a \endash 
4 penalty to Armor Class, cannot succeed at Reflex saves (except on a roll of 20), and cannot use shields. Creatures can resist this mind effect with a successful Will save (DC 10 + the deity\rquote s Charisma modifier + the deity\rquote 
s divine rank). The effects last for as long as the deity performs and for up to 1 round per divine rank thereafter.
\par \bullet  Affected creatures become blissfully calm. They are immune to f
ear and compulsion effects except for those created by deities of higher rank than the performing deity and any such effects already operating on affected creatures are countered and dispelled. This ability also counters and dispels rage effects except fo
r those created by deities of higher rank than the performing deity. Immunity to fear and compulsion last for as long as the deity performs and for up to 1 round per divine rank thereafter.
\par \bullet  Affected creatures fall asleep. This works like the }{\i\fs20 sleep }{\fs20 spell, except that any living creature can be affected. Creatures can resist this mind effect with Will saves (DC 10 + the deity\rquote s Charisma modifier + the deity
\rquote s divine rank). Affected creatures sleep for up to 1 hour per divine rank or until awakened. The deity can end the effect at will.
\par \bullet  Affected creatures are so deeply moved that they simply die. Only living creatures with Hit Dice equal to or less than the deity\rquote s divine rank are affected. Creatures can resist the effect with Fortitude saves (DC 10 + the deity\rquote 
s Charisma modifier + the deity\rquote s divine rank).
\par Once a creature makes a successful save against one of the deity\rquote s performances, the creature cannot be affected again for one day.
\par Note: Not all deities with this ability can create all the mentioned effects, as specified in the deity descriptions.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Art, bards, beauty, dance, love, music, poetry.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Know Death
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity knows the exact moment and circumstances of any mortal creature\rquote 
s death just by looking at the creature.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Death.
\par }{\fs20\cf8 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Know Secrets
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 No secrets can be kept from the deity.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity can learn a creature\rquote s entire history (including any embarrassing or vital secrets it might know) just by looking at it. This ability is similar to the }{\i\fs20 legend lore }{\fs20 
spell, except that it delivers instant results and the subject is allowed a Will save (DC 10 + the deity\rquote s Charisma modifier + the deity\rquote s divine rank) to avoid the effect.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Knowledge, secrets.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Lay Curse
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  This ability works like the }{\i\fs20 bestow curse }{\fs20 
spell, except that mortals get no save. Deities of equal or lesser rank are subject to this ability, but are allowed Will saves (DC 10 + the deity\rquote s Charisma modifier + the deity\rquote s divine rank) to resist. The curse
\par can be removed only by a deity of equal or higher rank than the cursing deity.
\par The deity can affect up to one creature per divine rank at once, but no more than that number each day. All must be within the deity\rquote s line of sight when first affected.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Evil.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Lay Quest
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  This ability works like the }{\i\fs20 geas/quest }{\fs20 
spell, except that it works only on mortals and it can be removed only by a deity of equal or higher rank than the deity who lays the quest. The deity c
an affect up to one creature per divine rank at once, but no more than that number each day. All must be within the deity\rquote s line of sight when first affected.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Justice, law.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Life and Death
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Divine rank 6, Gift of Life or Hand of Death salient divine ability.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity designates any mortal and snuffs out its life. Or the deity can designate any dead mortal and restore it to life.
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  This ability works across planar boundaries and penetrates any barrier except a divine shield. However, the subject must be in a location the deity can sense, either within the deity\rquote 
s sense range or in a location the deity can perceive through its remote sensing ability. If the deity cannot see the subject, the deity must 
unambiguously identify the subject in some fashion. If the deity chooses to kill a mortal, the ability works like the
\par }{\i\fs20 destruction }{\fs20 spell, except that there is no material component or saving throw. The mortal cannot be raised or resurrected afterward, excep
t by a deity of equal or higher rank using the Gift of Life or Life and Death salient divine ability.
\par If the deity restores life to a mortal, this ability works like the }{\i\fs20 true resurrection }{\fs20 spell, except that there is no material component and the amount of time the subject has been dead is irrelevant.
\par This ability cannot restore a creature to life against its will, but it can resurrect an elemental or outsider. It can resurrect a creature whose soul is trapped, provided the soul is not held by a deity of higher rank than the one using this ability.

\par This ability cannot restore life to a creature that has been slain by the Hand of Death, Life and Death, or Mass Life and Death ability of a deity with a higher rank.
\par }{\b\fs20 Rest: }{\fs20 After using either version of this ability, the deity must rest for 1 minute per level or Hit Die of the creature affected.
\par Deities whose portfolio includes death do not have to rest after using this ability.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Death, supreme.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Life Drain
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Death domain.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  As a free action, the deity can generate a cloud of darkness that rises from its body in a spread with a radius of 10 feet per divine rank and 10 feet high. The cloud blocks sight as a }{\i\fs20 deeper darkness }{\fs20 spell 
does, except that it cannot be countered by light
\par effects (other than those cast by deities of higher rank). Living creatures must make Will saves (DC 10 + the deity\rquote s Charisma modifier + the deity\rquote s divine rank) or die. Even with a successful save, living
 creatures still gain two negative levels (the save DC to remove the negative levels is the same as the first Will save). A single creature can be drained by the cloud only once per day, but the cloud\rquote s darkness remains effective.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Death, undead.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Mass Divine Blast
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Divine rank 6, Cha 29, Divine Blast salient divine ability.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  This ability works like the Divine Blast ability, except that the deity can specify up to five targets per rank, no two of which can 
be more than one mile apart per rank, or an area. The area can be a cone, burst, spread, or cylinder. A cone can be up to 100 feet long per rank. A burst or spread can have a radius of up to 50 feet per rank. A cylinder can have a radius of up to 50 feet 
per rank and a height of up to 10 feet per rank. The deity chooses the attack\rquote s exact form and dimensions.
\par Each use of this ability counts as a use of the deity\rquote s Divine Blast ability.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Death, destruction, war.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Mass Life and Death
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20 
 Divine rank 16, Gift of Life or Hand of Death salient divine ability, Life and Death salient divine ability.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity can designate any number of mortals and snuffs out their lives. Or the deity can designate any number of dead mortals and restore them to life.
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  No two mortals affected by a single use of this ability can be more than one mile apart per rank of the deity. The ability is otherwise identical with the Life and Death salient divine ability.
\par }{\b\fs20 Rest: }{\fs20 After using either version of this ability, the deity must rest for 1 minute per levels or Hit Dice of the creatures affected.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Death, supreme.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Master Crafter
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  23 ranks in two different Craft skills.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  Any object the deity creates is treated as a masterwork item, but uses the base item price (not the masterwork price) to determine time and cost required
 to create it. Any item the deity creates also has twice the hit points it would normally have, and its
\par break DC is increased by +10. These benefits apply to walls, doors, and other components of buildings the deity creates, as well as smaller items.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Crafts, creation.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Mind of the Beast
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 The deity can make plants and animals sentient, and it can reduce sentient creatures to animal or plant form.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity can grant humanlike sentience to trees or animals. This sentience lasts a maximum of one day, and the sentient tree or animal obeys the deity\rquote 
s commands to the best of its ability. The deity can affect up to one creature per divine rank at once, but no more than that number each day. All must be within the deity\rquote s line of sight when first affected.
\par Also, the deity can transmute any creature into a plant or animal of approximately the same size or up to two size categories smaller. The subject is allowed a Fortitude save (DC 10 + the deity\rquote s Charisma modifier + the deity\rquote 
s divine rank) to resist. Subjects
\par turned into plants become objects. Subjects turned into animals have the same abilities and statistics of the kind of animal the deity chooses.
\par The Alter Reality ability can make either effect permanent.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Nature.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Possess Mortal
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Cha 29.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity can possess any mortal in any location the deity can sense. Unwilling mortals can attempt Will saves (DC 10 + the deity\rquote s Charisma modifier + the deity\rquote s rank).
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  Spells th
at prevent possession block this ability if the mortal is unwilling. Likewise, spells that end possession drive out the deity if the mortal is unwilling. If the mortal is willing, however, the deity cannot be blocked or driven out, except by a divine

\par shield or the use of the Alter Reality salient divine ability by a deity of higher rank.
\par The possessed mortal effectively becomes an avatar of the deity. The deity can draw on all the possessed mortal\rquote s memories, and the deity senses what the mortal senses. Eac
h mortal possessed counts as a remote location where the deity is sensing and communicating. A demigod can possess up to two mortals at a time, a lesser deity can possess up to five mortals at once, an intermediate deity can possess up to ten, and a great
er deity can possess up to twenty mortals at once.
\par While the deity is in possession, the mortal\rquote s abilities are unchanged, except as noted below.
\par }{\i\fs20 Type: }{\fs20 Same as the deity.
\par }{\i\fs20 Hit Points: }{\fs20 Same as the mortal, +1 for each rank of the deity.
\par }{\i\fs20 Armor Clas}{\fs20 s: The mortal gains a divine bonus to Armor Class equal to half the deity\rquote s divine rank.
\par }{\i\fs20 Ability Scores: }{\fs20 Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution are unchanged. Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma become 5 points lower than the deity\rquote s (or remain as the mortal\rquote s scores if they are higher).
\par }{\i\fs20 Saves: }{\fs20 Fortitude and Reflex same as the mortal; Will adjusted if necessary for the mortal\rquote s new Wisdom score.
\par }{\i\fs20 Skills: }{\fs20 The mortal can use its own skills and the deity\rquote s skills. If the mortal and the deity have the same skill, use the skill of whichever has more ranks in the skill. Use the mortal\rquote 
s effective ability scores to determine skill modifiers.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Supreme.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Power of Luck
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Luck domain.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity can give creatures good or bad fortune. The deity can affect up to one creature per divine rank at once, but no more than that number each day. All must be within the deity\rquote 
s line of sight when first affected. Subjects receive a luck bonus of +1 per divine rank or a luck penalty of \endash 
1 per divine rank on attack rolls, saves, and checks for one day. Any creature that attacks the deity automatically suffers the luck penalty, and this does not count against the deity\rquote s daily uses of this ability.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Fate, gambling, luck.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Power of Nature
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20 
 The deity can perform any of the following in a radius of one mile per divine rank around the deity, at will, as a full-round action.
\par \bullet  Create or quell winds to produce anything from still air to tornado force winds.
\par \bullet  Set the temperature anywhere from \endash 50\'b0F to 120\'b0F.
\par \bullet  Shake the earth, as the }{\i\fs20 earthquake }{\fs20 spell.
\par \bullet  Create rain, sleet, hail, snow, or thunderstorms.
\par These effects last as long as the deity concentrates and for up to 1 minute per divine rank afterward. The deity can end an effect as a free action. 
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Nature, sea, weather.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Power of Truth
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20 
 The deity knows when anyone (other than a deity of equal or higher rank) deliberately lies. This ability works like the }{\i\fs20 discern lies }{\fs20 spell, 
except that it works continuously and applies to any creature the deity can perceive. The deity also can enchant creatures so they become truthful. The deity can affect up to one creature per divine rank at once, but no more than that number each day. All
 must be within the deity\rquote s line of sight when first affected. The enchanted creatures become unable to utter any deliberate falsehoods or evasions of truth for one day. The subject is allowed a Will save (DC 10 + the deity\rquote 
s Charisma modifier + the deity\rquote s divine rank) to resist. Subjects who make successful saves become immune to this ability for one day. 
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Justice, law, truth.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Rejuvenation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Divine rank 11, Divine Fast Healing salient divine ability.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  When the deity suffers an attack that should destroy it, it simply disperses and reassembles later. Roll 10d10 to determine the number of days before the deity returns.
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  If the deity is killed in its own realm, subtract the deity\rquote s divine rank from the number of days it takes to return. If the deity\rquote 
s realm is on a divinely morphic Outer Plane, and the deity is killed there, subtract twice the deity\rquote s divine rank from
\par the number of days it takes to return. The return always takes at least one day.
\par This ability is ineffective if the deity is killed by another deity of equal or higher rank.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Death, life, undead.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps See Magic
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Magic domain.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  This ability is similar to a constant }{\i\fs20 greater arcane sight }{\fs20 
spell, except that it covers the whole area the deity can see, and the deity immediately knows the number of auras present along with their locations and strengths. The deity needs to make a Spellcraft check to identify the school of e
ach aura, but most deities with this ability can use Spellcraft as a free action.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Magic.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Shapechange
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 This is an extraordinary ability.
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Divine rank 11, Alter Size salient divine ability,
\par Alter Form salient divine ability.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20 
 The deity can assume the form of an animal, beast, dragon, fey, giant, humanoid, magical beast, monstrous humanoid, or plant. The assumed form must be both living and corporeal. The deity can remain in the assumed form indefinitely, but
 it resumes its own form if slain.
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  This ability works like the Shift Form salient divine ability, except that the deity is not limited to a set number of forms and as noted here.
\par The deity can use its Alter Size ability simultaneously with this one to become as small as a grain of sand or as large as 1,600 feet in the assumed form\rquote s greatest dimension.
\par The deity can use this ability to create disguises, gaining a bonus of +20 on its Disguise checks.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Nature, secrets, thieves.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Shift Form
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 This is an extraordinary ability.
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Divine rank 6, Alter Size salient divine ability, Alter Form salient divine ability.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity can assume the form of another creature. The forms a deity can assume are limited and vary with each deity. The forms allowed are listed in the deity\rquote 
s description. The deity can remain in the assumed form indefinitely, but it
\par resumes its own form if slain.
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  The deity acquires the physical, natural, and extraordinary abilities of the 
form it has assumed (but not spell-like or supernatural abilities) while retaining its own mind. Physical abilities include natural size and Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution scores. Natural abilities include armor, natural weapons (such as claws, bit
e
, swoop and rake, and constriction; but not petrification, breath weapons, energy drain, energy effect, and the like), and similar gross physical qualities (presence or absence of wings, number of extremities, and so on). A body with extra limbs does not 
allow the deity to make more attacks (or more advantageous two-weapon attacks) than normal. Natural abilities also include mundane movement capabilities, such as walking, swimming, and flight with wings. The deity\rquote 
s speed is that of the assumed form or the deity\rquote s normal speed, whichever is higher.
\par In general, any part of the body or piece of equipment that is separated from the whole reverts to its original form. However, if the assumed form has an extraordinary ability that allows it to produce a substance
 or shed part of its body, then this ability also grants that ability. 
\par The deity retains its Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores, level and class, hit points (despite any change in its Constitution score), alignment, base attack bonus, and base save
s. (New Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution scores may affect final attack and save bonuses.) The deity retains its outsider type, extraordinary abilities, spells, and spell-like abilities, but not its supernatural abilities.
\par The deity also retains its divine Armor Class bonus and divine qualities and abilities, provided they are not supernatural.
\par The deity can cast spells for which it has components. It needs a voice like that of a humanoid for verbal components and hands like those of a humanoid for som
atic components, Likewise, the deity needs hands to use many of its powers, such as creating objects related to its portfolio.
\par When the shape shift occurs, the deity\rquote s equipment, if any, transforms to match the new form. If the new form is a creature that 
does not use equipment (aberration, animal, beast, magical beast, construct, dragon, elemental, ooze, some outsiders, plant, some undead creatures, some shapechangers, or vermin), the equipment melds into the new form and becomes nonfunctional.
\par Material components and focuses melded in this way cannot be used to cast spells. If the new form uses equipment (fey, giant, humanoid, some outsiders, many shapechangers, many undead creatures), the deity\rquote 
s equipment changes to match the new form and retains its properties.
\par This ability cannot confer class levels or class abilities.
\par The deity can change physical qualities such as hair color, hair texture, skin color, and gender. The deity can use this ability to create disguises, gaining a bonus of +15 on its Disguise checks.
\par The deity can use its Alter Size ability simultaneously with this one to become as small as a grain of sand or as large as 1,600 feet in the assumed form\rquote s greatest dimension.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Nature.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Speak with Creatures
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity has the supernatural ability to converse with the specified 
creature. This ability works like a permanent }{\i\fs20 speak with animals }{\fs20 or }{\i\fs20 speak with plants }{\fs20 spell, or like a }{\i\fs20 tongues }{\fs20 spell that only allows the deity to converse with the specified type of creature.
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  A deity can have this ability multiple times, choosing a different type of creature each time.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Nature.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Spontaneous Wizard Spells
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Divine rank 6, Wizard level 1st, Int 29, Spell Mastery, Arcane Mastery salient divine ability.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  This ability works like a cleric\rquote s ability to cast }{\i\fs20 cure }{\fs20 
spells spontaneously, except that it applies to wizard spells. The deity must have a sufficient Intelligence score and wizard levels to cast the spell.
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  The deity still needs a spellbook for its wizard spells unless it also has the Divine Spellcasting ability.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Knowledge, magic.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Stride
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Travel domain.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity\rquote s movement is doubled on the local or overland scales. Also, having this ability means that the deity\rquote s height does not limit the distance it can jump.
\par In addition, the deity can impart extra overland speed to living creatures. The deity can affect up to one creature per divine rank at once, but no more than that number each day. All must be within the deity\rquote s line of si
ght when first affected. Creatures who receive this boon double their speeds on the local or overland scales.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Travel.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Sunder and Disjoin
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  If any weapon or item is used against the deity in combat, the deity can destro
y it with a touch. Treat a successful touch as a combination of a }{\i\fs20 disintegrate }{\fs20 spell and a }{\i\fs20 
\par disjunction }{\fs20 spell, both targeted exclusively at the touched item. The save DC for both effects is 19 + the deity\rquote s Charisma modifier. Anitem remains vulnerable to this ability for up to one day after being used against the deity.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Victory, war.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Supreme Initiative
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 This is an extraordinary ability.
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Dex 29, Improved Initiative.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity goes first in the initiative order, no matter what its initiative result is or what initiative result anyone else in an encounter or battle has.
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  Determine initiative normally among any beings who don\rquote t have this ability, placing them in order after the deity. The deity can choose to delay or ready an action, just any other being can, and doing so changes the deity
\rquote s initiative as normal. The deity also can refocus, thereby resuming its position at the beginning of the initiative order.
\par If 
two or more deities who have this ability are in the same battle, the deity with the highest divine rank gets the first position in the initiative order, the deity with the second highest rank gets the second position, and so on. Other beings then go in o
rder after the last deity with the Supreme Initiative ability.
\par If two deities with this ability and the same divine rank are in a battle, make an initiative check for each deity, and the deity with the higher result goes first.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Agility, thieves, war.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps True Knowledge
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20 
 Divine rank 11, Int 40, bardic knowledge or lore class feature and 10th level in the class that grants the ability, Knowledge domain.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity never fails a bardic knowledge or lore check, no matter how obscure the knowledge involved. The deity speaks and understands all languages. The deity can use }{\i\fs20 legend lore }{\fs20 and }{\i\fs20 analyze dweomer 
}{\fs20 as free actions at will. These actions count against
\par the deity\rquote s maximum number of free actions per round.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Knowledge.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps True Shapechange
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 This is an extraordinary ability.
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Divine rank 16, Alter Size salient divine ability, Alter Form salient divine ability, Shapechange salient divine ability.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity can assume the form of any object or creature. The deity can remain in the assumed form indefinitely, but it resumes its own form if slain.
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  This ability works like the Shift Form salient divine ability, except as noted below.
\par The deity can take any form, living or unliving, corporal or incorporeal. The deity gains the supernatural abilities of the assumed form.
\par The deity can use this ability to create disguises, gaining a bonus of +20 on its Disguise checks.
\par The deity can use its Alter Size ability simultaneously with this one to become as small as a grain of sand or as large as 1,600 feet in the assumed form\rquote s greatest dimension.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Nature, secrets, thieves.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Undead Mastery
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Divine rank 14, Cleric level 17th.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20 
 The deity can automatically command or destroy any undead creature, as desired, as a free action, though this counts against the normal limit of free actions per round. The deity can do this as often as desired, but it can command no more than one
\par undead creature per divine rank (regardless of the creatures\rquote  Hit Dice) at any one time.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Death, life, undead.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Undead Qualities
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity gains the qualities of the undead type:
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 \emdash No Constitution score.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 \emdash Darkvision out to 60 feet.
\par \emdash Immunity to all mind-affecting effects (charms, compulsions, phantasms, patterns, and morale effects).
\par \emdash Immunity to poison, sleep effects, paralysis, stunning, disease, and death effects.
\par \emdash Not subject to critical hits, nonlethal damage, ability drain, or energy drain. Immune to damage to its physical ability scores (Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution), as well as to fatigue and exhaustion effects.
\par \emdash Cannot heal damage on its own if it has no Intelligence score, although it can be healed. Negative energy can heal undead creatures. The fast healing special quality works regardless of the creature\rquote s Intelligence score.
\par \emdash Immunity to any effect that requires a Fortitude save (unless the effect also works on objects or is harmless).
\par \emdash Uses its Charisma modifier for Concentration checks.
\par \emdash Not at risk of death from massive damage, but when reduced to 0 hit points or less, it is immediately destroyed.
\par \emdash Not affected by }{\i\fs20\cf0 raise dead }{\fs20\cf0 and }{\i\fs20\cf0 reincarnate }{\fs20\cf0 spells or abilities. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Resurrection }{\fs20\cf0 and }{\i\fs20\cf0 true resurrection }{\fs20\cf0 
can affect undead creatures. These spells turn undead creatures back into the living creatures they were before becoming undead.
\par \emdash Undead do not breathe, eat, or sleep.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Death, undead.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Wave of Chaos
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Chaotic alignment.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The deity can create a wave of mental force that extends from the deity in a spread with a radius of 10 feet per divine rank. Creatures within the spread must make Will saves (DC 10 + the deity\rquote 
s Charisma modifier + the deity\rquote s divine rank) or
\par be forced to act unpredictably. This ability works like a }{\i\fs20 confusion }{\fs20 spell cast by a sorcerer of level 10 + the deity\rquote s divine rank.
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Chaos.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\caps Wound Enemy
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Base attack bonus +20.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  The affected 
weapon deals damage to a creature such that a wound it causes deals 1d6 points of damage per round thereafter in addition to the normal damage from the weapon. Multiple wounds from the weapon result in cumulative bleeding loss (two
\par wounds for 2d6 points of damage per round, and so on). The bleeding can only be stopped by a successful Heal check (DC 15 + the deity\rquote s rank) or the application of any }{\i\fs20 cure }{\fs20 spell or other healing spell }{\i\fs20 
(heal, healing circle, }{\fs20 and so on).
\par }{\b\fs20 Notes:}{\fs20  The ability functions only when the 
deity personally attacks with a physical weapon. The ability works with a ranged weapon, but not if someone else uses the weapon. The deity can apply to the ability to any weapon or natural weapon, but not to a
\par spell, spell-like ability, supernatural ability, or divine ability. A deity can have this ability multiple times, and its effects stack. 
\par }{\b\fs20 Suggested Portfolio Elements:}{\fs20  Death, pain, war.
\par 
\par }{\fs20\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\ul\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs36\ulnone FEATS
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Deities can obtain the feats described here, in addition to any standard feats.
\par 
\par }{\caps BLINDSIGHT,5-FT.RADIUS}{\fs20  [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Base attack bonus +4, Blind-Fight, Wisdom 19.
\par Benefit: Using senses such as acute hearing and sensitivity to vibrations, you detect the location of opponents who are no more than 5 feet away from you. }{\i\fs20 Invisibility }{\fs20 and }{\i\fs20 darkness }{\fs20 are
 irrelevant, though it you discern incorporeal beings.
\par 
\par }{\caps DISGUISE SPELL}{\fs20  [METAMAGIC]
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Bardic music, Perform 12 ranks.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  You have mastered the art of casting spells unobtrusively, mingling verbal and somatic components into its music and 
performances so that others rarely catch you in the act of casting a spell. Like a silent, stilled spell, a disguised spell can\rquote 
t be identified through Spellcraft. Your performance is obvious to everyone in the vicinity, but the fact that you are casting a spell isn\rquote 
t. Unless the spell visibly emanates from you or observers have some other means of determining its source, they don\rquote t know where the effect came from. A disguised spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell\rquote s actual level.

\par 
\par }{\caps DIVINE MIGHT}{\fs20  [DIVINE ]
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Str 13, turn or rebuke undead ability, Power Attack.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  As a free action, spend one of your turn or rebuke undead attempts to add your Charisma bonus to your weapon damage for 1 full round.
\par 
\par }{\caps DIVINE VENGEANCE}{\fs20  [DIVINE ]
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Ability to turn undead, Extra Turning.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  You can spend one of your turn undead attempts to add 2d6 points of sacred energy damage to all your successful melee attacks against undead until the end of your next action. This is a supernatural ability.
\par }{\i\fs20 
\par }{\caps ENERGY SUBSTITUTION}{\fs20  [METAMAGIC]
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Any other metamagic feat, Knowledge (arcana) 5 ranks.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  You choose one type of energy: acid, cold, electricity, fire, or sonic. When employing a spell with the acid, cold, electric
ity, fire, or sonic designator, you can modify the spell to use your chosen type of energy instead. The altered spell uses a spell slot of the spell\rquote s normal level.
\par The altered spell works normally in all respects except the type of damage dealt. 
\par }{\b\fs20 Special: }{\fs20 You can gain this feat multiple times. Each time the feat applies to a different type of energy.
\par 
\par }{\caps EXTRA MUSIC }{\fs20 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisite:}{\fs20  Bardic music.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  You can use your bardic music four extra times per day.
\par }{\b\fs20 Normal:}{\fs20  Bards without the Extra Music feat can use bardic music once per day per level.
\par }{\b\fs20 Special: }{\fs20 You can gain this feat multiple times, adding another four uses of bardic music each time.
\par 
\par }{\caps EYES IN THE BACK OF YOUR HEAD}{\fs20  [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Base attack bonus +3, Wis 19.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20 
 Attackers do not gain the usual +2 attack bonus when flanking you. This feat grants no effect whenever you are attacked without benefit of your Dexterity modifier to AC, such as when you are flat-footed or when you are the target of a rogue\rquote 
s sneak attack.
\par 
\par }{\caps FLEET OF FOOT}{\fs20  [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Dex 15, Run.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  When running or charging, you can make a single direction change of 90 degrees or less. You can\rquote t use this feat while wearing medium or heavy armor, or when carrying a mediu
m or heavy load.  If you are charging, you must move in a straight line for 10 feet after the turn to maintain the charge.
\par }{\b\fs20 Normal:}{\fs20  Without this feat, you can run or charge only in a straight line.
\par 
\par }{\caps HOLD THE LINE }{\fs20 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Combat Reflexes, base attack bonus +2.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  You may make an attack of opportunity against a chagin opponent who enters an atea you threaten.  Your attack of opportunity happens immediately before the charge attack is resolved.
\par }{\b\fs20 Normal:}{\fs20  You only get an attack of opportunity against a character that exits a square you threaten.
\par 
\par }{\caps JACK OF ALL TRADES}{\fs20  [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisite:}{\fs20  You must be at least 6th level.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  You can use any skill untrained, even those that normally require training.
\par 
\par }{\caps KNOCK-DOWN}{\fs20  [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Base attack bonus +2, Improved Trip, Str 15.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  Whenever you deal 10 or more points of damage to your opponent in melee, you make a trip attack as a free action against the same target.
\par 
\par }{\caps PERSISTENT SPELL}{\fs20  [METAMAGIC]
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisite:}{\fs20  Extend Spell.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20 
 A persistent spell has a duration of 24 hours. The persistent spell must have a personal range or a fixed range. Spells of instantaneous duration cannot be affected by this feat, nor can spells whose effects are discharged.  You need not concentrate on s
pells such as }{\i\fs20 detect magic}{\fs20  or}{\i\fs20  detect thoughts}{\fs20 
 to be aware of the mere presence of absence of the things detected, but you must still concentrate to gain additional information as normal.  Concentration on such a spell is a standard action that does not prov
oke an attack of opportunity.  A persistent spell uses up a spell slot six levels higher than the spell\rquote s actual level.
\par 
\par }{\caps PLANT CONTROL }{\fs20 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Plant Defiance, ability to cast }{\i\fs20 speak with plant}{\fs20 s.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  You can rebuke or command plant creatures as an evil cleric rebukes undead. To command a plant, you must be able to speak with it via a }{\i\fs20 speak with plants }{\fs20 
effect, though it may do so mentally if desired. This ability is usable a total number of times per day equal to 3 + your Charisma modifier. You use your highest caster level to determine the level at which you rebuke plants.
\par 
\par }{\caps PLANT DEFIANCE}{\fs20  [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisite:}{\fs20  Ability to cast }{\i\fs20 detect animals or plant}{\fs20 s.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20 
 You can turn (but not destroy) plant creatures as a good cleric turns undead. When determining the result of a turning attempt, treat all destruction results as normal turning. Treat immobile plant creatures as creatures unable to flee. This ability is u
sable a total number of times per day equal to 3 + your Charisma modifier. You use your highest caster level to determine the level at which you turns plants.
\par 
\par }{\caps POWER CRITICAL}{\fs20  [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Weapon focus (chosen weapon), base attack bonus +4
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  When using the weapon you selected, you gain a +4 bonus on the roll to confirm a threat.
\par }{\b\fs20 Special: }{\fs20 A fighter may select Power Critical as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par You can gain Power Critical multiple times. Each time you take the feat, it may be with a different weapon or the same weapon.  If you take it with the same weapon, the effects of the feats stack.
\par 
\par }{\caps REACH SPELL}{\fs20  [METAMAGIC]
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  You may cast a spell that normally has a range of touch at any distance up to 30 feet. The spell effectively 
becomes a ray, so you must succeed at a ranged touch attack to bestow the spell upon the recipient. A reach spell uses up a spell slot two levels higher than the spell\rquote s actual level.
\par 
\par }{\caps REPEAT SPELL}{\fs20  [METAMAGIC]
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Any other metamagic feat.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20 
 A repeated spell is automatically cast again at the beginning of your next round of actions. No matter where you are, the secondary spell originates from the same location and affects the same area as the primary spell. If the repeated spell
\par designates a target, the secondary spell retargets the same target if the target is within 30 feet of its original position; otherwise the secondary spell fails to go off. A repeated spell uses up a spell slot three levels higher than the spell\rquote 
s actual level. Repeat Spell cannot be used on spells with a range of touch.
\par 
\par }{\caps SACRED SPELL}{\fs20  [METAMAGIC]
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  Half of the damage dealt by a sacred spell results directly from divine power and is therefore not subject to being reduced by protection from elements or similar ma
gic. The other half of the damage dealt by the spell is as normal. A sacred spell uses up a spell slot two levels higher than the spell\rquote s actual level. Only divine spells can be cast as sacred spells.
\par 
\par }{\caps SHARP-SHOOTING}{\fs20  [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, base attack bonus +3.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  Your targets only receive a +2 bonus to Armor class due to cover.  This feat has no effect against foes with no cover or total cover.
\par }{\b\fs20 Normal:}{\fs20  Cover normally gives a +4 bonus to AC.
\par }{\b\fs20 Special:}{\fs20  A fighter may select Sharp-Shooting as one of his bonus feats.
\par 
\par }{\caps SUBDUAL SUBSTITUTION}{\fs20  [METAMAGIC]
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Any other metamagic feat, Knowledge (arcana) 5 ranks.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  When employing a spell with the acid, cold, electricity, fire, or sonic designator, you can modify the spell to deal subdual damage instead of the indicated type of energy damage. The altered spell uses a spell slot of the spell
\rquote s normal level.
\par The altered spell works normally in all respects except the type of damage dealt. 
\par 
\par }{\caps SUPERIOR EXPERTISE}{\fs20  [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisites:}{\fs20  Int 13, Combat Expertise, base attack bonus +6.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  When you use the Combat Expertise feat to improve your Armor Class, the number you subtract from your attack and add to your AC can be any number that does not exceed your base attack bonus.
\par This feat eliminates the +5 maximum for the Combat Expertise feat. 
\par }}