{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f101\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f102\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f104\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f105\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f106\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f107\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f108\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Courier New};}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}
{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\title DIVINE MINIONS}{\author AKSmith}{\operator asmith}{\creatim\yr2003\mo1\dy7\hr11\min12}
{\revtim\yr2004\mo4\dy12\hr11\min7}{\version8}{\edmins6}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords806}{\nofchars4598}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8229}}\margl1080\margr1080\margt1080\margb1080 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1080\dgvorigin1080\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0\fs20 
This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{\b0\caps\fs20\ul 
\par }{\b0\caps\fs36 DIVINE MINIONS
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
\par All types of beings may serve deities. In general, a deity only accepts minions who have accomplished some great deed in service to the deity. Such minions usually have the same alignment as the deity. No minion\rquote 
s alignment is opposed to the patron deity\rquote s alignment on either the law\endash chaos axis or the good\endash evil axis. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Proxies
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 A divine proxy speaks and acts on behalf of the divine being. When the demand for a deity\rquote 
s presence is too high, the deity may use proxies.
\par Proxies are divine minions invested with a small portion of the deity\rquote s po
wer. A deity may invest 1 rank of its power (reducing its divine rank accordingly) in a single servant for as long as the deity chooses. The minion must be physically present for the deity to perform the investiture. While so invested, the proxy gains any
 
salient divine abilities held by the patron deity as well as the powers and abilities of a rank 1 demigod. Without the requisite ability scores or divine ranks, the proxy may not be able to use all those powers and abilities. A deity may have more than on
e proxy, but it must lose 1 divine rank for each proxy it invests. A deity can retrieve a single divine rank as a standard action, and doing so it does not require the physical presence of the proxy. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Petitioners
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Some spirits demonstrate their devotion to their deity by traveling to the deity\rquote 
s home plane. Those that survive the journey across the planes become servants of their deity. While a few may remain disembodied spirits, most become petitioners through the divine will of their patron deity. 
\par In general, petitioners appear in the form that they had when they died, though they may be remade by deities to fit the nature of their particular afterlife. In general, petitioners who become divine servants are creatu
res that originally had at least 1 Intelligence and 1 Wisdom.
\par The following creature types may become petitioners depending on the deity: aberrations, animals, dragons, fey, giants, humanoids, magical beasts, monstrous humanoids, and plants, oozes, and ver
min with sufficient ability scores. Constructs and undead are not usually made into petitioners, though the spirits of their original forms may be. Elementals and outsiders tend to meld with their native planes, and as such do not become petitioners. Thei
r spirits may still be called back from the dead, however.
\par The template presented below is for NPCs, not player characters. If dead characters who are petitioners are later restored to life (once again becoming player characters), they forget any of their experiences as petitioners.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Creating a Petitioner
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 \'93Petitioner\'94
 is a template that may be added to any creature as determined by the nature of the campaign (referred to hereafter as the base creature). The creature\rquote s type changes to outsider, and the creature uses all the base creature\rquote 
s statistics and special abilities except as noted here.
\par }{\b\fs20 Hit Dice: }{\fs20 Change to 2d8. Retain bonus hit points.
\par }{\b\fs20 AC:}{\fs20  Natural Armor Class, Dexterity, and size bonuses or penalties apply. Armor bonuses are not applicable.
\par }{\b\fs20 Attacks:}{\fs20  Base attack bonus is reduced to +2, subject to modifications for size and Strength.
\par }{\b\fs20 Special Attacks:}{\fs20  A petitioner loses all supernatural and spell-like attacks, but retains normal and exceptional attacks.
\par }{\b\fs20 Special Qualities:}{\fs20  A petitioner loses all supernatural and spell-like abilities, but retains exceptional abilities. In addition, it gains the following qualities.
\par }{\i\fs20 Mental Immunity: }{\fs20 All petitioners are immune to mind-affecting effects. 
\par }{\i\fs20 Other Immunities: }{\fs20 Depending on its nature, the petitioner is immune to two 
of the following effects: acid, cold, electricity, fire, poison, petrifaction, or polymorphing. These immunities are applied similarly to all petitioners of a particular plane or deity.
\par }{\i\fs20 Resistance}{\fs20 s: Depending on the nature of the petitioner\rquote s plane, the petitioner gains resistance 20 against two of the following effects: acid, cold, electricity, or fire.
\par }{\i\fs20 Planar Commitment: }{\fs20 Petitioners cannot leave the plane they inhabit. They are teleported one hundred miles in a random direction if an attempt is made to force them to leave.
\par }{\i\fs20 Additional Special Qualities: }{\fs20 Particular planes may provide additional benefits for petitioners of those planes. Typical additional special qualities may include any one of the following.
\par \bullet  Damage reduction 5/silver and spell resistance 5.
\par \bullet  Continuous magic circle against evil.
\par \bullet  Fast healing 1.
\par \bullet  Damage reduction 10/magic.
\par \bullet  Spell resistance 10.
\par \bullet  Additional 2d8 Hit Dice.
\par \bullet  Remove all immunities and resistances except immunity to mind-affecting effects. Add acid, cold, electricity, fire, and poison resistance 5.
\par Such modifications are the result of the nature of the plane or the powerful beings within it.
\par }{\b\fs20 Saves:}{\fs20  Base saving throw bonuses are +3.
\par }{\b\fs20 Abilities:}{\fs20  Same as the base creature. Some cosmologies or deities may set a maximum of 18 for petitioner ability scores. Abilities higher than that are reduced to the maximum.
\par }{\b\fs20 Skills: }{\fs20 Petitioners have no skills. Previous skills are lost.
\par }{\b\fs20 Feats: }{\fs20 Petitioners have no feats. Previous feats are lost.
\par }{\b\fs20 Climate/Terrain:}{\fs20  Any land and underground (within the same plane).
\par }{\b\fs20 Organization: }{\fs20 Same as the base creature.
\par }{\b\fs20 Challenge Rating:}{\fs20  1.
\par }{\b\fs20 Treasure:}{\fs20  None.
\par }{\b\fs20 Alignment: }{\fs20 Same as the native plane.
\par }{\b\fs20 Advancement: }{\fs20 None.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Exceptional Petitioners
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 The deities may choose particular servants for
 specific tasks that may retain the knowledge of their previous selves. These exceptional petitioners retain the feats and skills they had in life, but are otherwise limited as for the petitioners of their plane.
\par }}