{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New{\*\falt Courier};}{\f28\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Palatino;}{\f29\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial Unicode MS;}
{\f30\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}@Arial Unicode MS;}{\f37\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f38\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f40\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f41\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f42\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f43\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f44\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f45\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f46\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}
{\f48\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f49\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f50\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}{\f51\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f52\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}
{\f53\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE{\*\falt Courier};}{\f54\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr{\*\falt Courier};}{\f56\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f57\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur{\*\falt Courier};}{\f58\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier};}{\f59\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic){\*\falt Courier};}
{\f60\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic{\*\falt Courier};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \fi-540\li6120\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin6120\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{\s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 
heading 4;}{\s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel4\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f1\fs20\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 5;}{\s6\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel5\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\ul\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 6;}{\s7\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel6\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 7;}{
\s8\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel7\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 8;}{\s9\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel8\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs36\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 9;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext15 Body Text;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\cf2\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Body Text 2;}{\s17\ql \li0\ri0\sl-240\slmult0\widctlpar
\tx432\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f28\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 Core Body;}{\s18\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar
\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext18 Preformatted;}}{\*\revtbl {Unknown;}}{\info{\title 620_88169 EpicLevel Ch1a}
{\author asmith}{\operator asmith}{\creatim\yr2002\mo12\dy11\hr13\min50}{\revtim\yr2004\mo4\dy2\hr14\min19}{\printim\yr2004\mo2\dy13\hr14\min33}{\version232}{\edmins766}{\nofpages34}{\nofwords18814}{\nofchars-32766}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}
{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8229}}\margl1080\margr1080\margt1080\margb1080 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1080\dgvorigin1080\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 
This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{\f0\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \s6\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel5\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\ul\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs36\ulnone EPIC SPELLS
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {WHAT ARE EPIC SPELLS? 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Epic spells are spells developed from the ground up using a list of magical ingredients called seeds. Des
pite their power, epic spells still follow the basic rules for casting spells, except as specifically noted otherwise. Epic casters can manipulate the seeds of true magic, but knowing the seeds and how to manipulate them does not instantly grant ultimate 
power. Each epic spell must be laboriously developed before it can be used. 
\par 
\par }{\cf0 ACQUIRING EPIC SPELLS 
\par }{\fs20\cf0 A character with the Epic Spellcasting feat may start acquiring epic spells immediately. Using epic spells is a two-step procedure: development and spellcasting. 
\par 
\par }{\cf0 EPIC SPELL DEVELOPMENT 
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Before it can be cast, an epic spell must be developed. The process of development can be a time-consuming and expensive process. It is during development that a caster determines whether a given epic spell lies within his o
r her abilities or beyond them. The basis of that determination lies in an epic spell\rquote s Spellcraft DC. 
\par The easiest way to develop an epic spell is to use one already given. The description of each of these unique spells gives the amount of gold, time, and experience points required to develop the spell. If a character pays a spell\rquote 
s development cost, he or she develops (and thus knows) that spell. 
\par For information on developing an epic spell completely from scratch, see Developing Unique Epic Spells, below. 
\par 
\par }{\cf0 EPIC SPELLCASTING 
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Once an epic spell is developed, the caster knows the spell. A developed epic spell becomes an indelible part of the caster and may be prepared without a spellbook (if a wizard is the caster). Characters who cast spells spontaneously
, such as sorcerers, can cast a developed epic spell by using any open epic spell slot. Druids, clerics, and similar spellcasters can likewise prepare epic spells using epic spell slots. 
\par A spellcaster can prepare or cast any epic spell he or she knows as 
many times per day as he or she has available epic spell slots. A spellcaster who can cast epic spells has a number of open epic spell slots per day equal to one-tenth his or her ranks in the Knowledge skill appropriate to the spell and the caster\rquote 
s class. Knowledge (arcana) is appropriate for arcane casters, and Knowledge (religion) or Knowledge (nature) is appropriate for divine casters. The rules for rest between casting a day\rquote 
s allotment of epic spells are the same as for rest required to prepare standard spells. If the caster doesn\rquote t use up a day\rquote 
s allotment of epic spell slots, the unused slots remain available whether or not the spellcaster receives appropriate rest. 
\par Even if the epic spell has been developed and an epic spell slot is available, successfully casting an epic spell isn\rquote t assured. The caster\rquote 
s Spellcraft skill modifier is vital for casting an epic spell. To cast an epic spell, a spellcaster makes a Spellcraft check against the epic spell\rquote s Spellcraft DC. If the check succeeds, the spell i
s cast. If the caster fails the check, the epic spell fizzles and the epic spell slot is used for the day. 
\par Because epic spells require Spellcraft checks, a spell is beyond the caster\rquote s ability if the final Spellcraft DC is greater than 20 + the spellcaster\rquote s Spellcraft modifier. Epic spells with DCs higher than 10 + the spellcaster\rquote 
s Spellcraft modifier are risky; a caster can take 10 when casting an epic spell, but he or she can\rquote t take 20. When routinely casting epic spells, most spellcasters take 10 on their Spellcraft checks. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Epic Spell Levels:}{\fs20\cf0 
 Epic spells have no fixed level. However, for purposes of Concentration checks, spell resistance, and other possible situations where spell level is important, epic spells are all treated as if they were 10th-level spells. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Metamagic, Items, and Epic Spells:}{\fs20\cf0  Metamagic feats and other epic feats that manipulate normal spells cannot be used with epic spells. 
\par A character can\rquote t craft a magic item that casts an epic spell, regardless of whether the item is activated w
ith spell completion, a spell trigger, a command word, or simple use. Only major artifacts, which are beyond the means of even epic characters to create, can possibly contain magic of this power. 
\par The saving throw against a character\rquote s epic spell has a DC of 20 + the character\rquote s relevant ability score modifier. It\rquote s possible to develop epic spells that have even higher DCs, however, by applying the appropriate factor. 
\par 
\par }{\cf0 EPIC SPELL TERMS
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Epic Spell: }{\fs20\cf0 Spells that are different from common spells. Epic spells are usually custom-made. Epic spells do not take up normal spell slots, but instead are gained and used under a completely separate progression. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Epic Spell Slots: }{\fs20\cf0 A character must have an available epic spell slot to prepare or cast an epic spell, just as he or she needs a normal spell slot for a nonepic spell. A character doesn\rquote 
t gain epic spell slots by virtue of his or her level and class, however. A character gets one epic spell slot for every 10 ranks he or she has in the relevant Knowledge skill. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Factor: }{\fs20\cf0 When creating an epic spell, a character can modify the basic use of a seed. Each modification is called a factor, and most factors increase the difficulty of casting the spell. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Mitigating Factor: }{\fs20\cf0 The opposite of a normal factor, a mitigating factor modifies the spell but makes it easier to cast. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Seed: }{\fs20\cf0 Every custom epic spell created by spellcasters begins with a base effect called a seed. Seeds are the fundamental building blocks of epic spells. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC: }{\fs20\cf0 For epic spells, the Spellcraft DC is a measure of how difficult the spell is for a spellcaster to cast. It also measures how powerful an epic spell is. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 EPIC SPELL FORMULAS AND CALCULATIONS 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 The following formulas are important to epic spellcasters. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Epic Spells Per Day: }{\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcana), Knowledge (religion), or Knowledge (nature) ranks \'f7 10 (round down). 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Cast an Epic Spell: }{\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft check (DC = epic spell\rquote s Spellcraft DC). 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level of an Epic Spell: }{\fs20\cf0 Epic spells are considered 10th level for the purpose of Concentration checks, spell resistance, and other determinations. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw for an Epic Spell: }{\fs20\cf0 DC = 20 + key ability modifier. 
\par 
\par }{\cf0 DISPELLING,EPIC SPELLS,AND ANTIMAGIC FIELD
\par }{\fs20\cf0 A lucky nonepic spellcaster casting }{\i\fs20\cf0 greater dispel magic }{\fs20\cf0 might be able to dispel an epic spell. The game mech
anics do not change, and epic spells do not occupy any privileged position allowing them to resist being dispelled other than their presumably high caster level. Likewise, epic spells using the }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel }{\fs20\cf0 
seed can dispel nonepic spells. Such epic spells use the same game mechanic: The check to dispel is 1d20 + a specified number (usually dispeller\rquote s level), and the DC is 11 + the spellcaster\rquote s level. 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Antimagic field }{\fs20\cf0 does not automatically suppress epic spells as it does standard spells. Instead, each time an epic spell is subject to an }{\i\fs20\cf0 antimagic fiel}{\fs20\cf0 
d, make a dispel check as a 20th-level caster (1d20 + 20). The epic spell has a DC of 11 + the epic spell\rquote s spellcaster level. If the suppression check is successful, the epic spell is suppressed like any other spel
l. If the dispel check is unsuccessful, the epic spell functions normally.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 EPIC SPELL DESCRIPTIONS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Each epic spell description follows the same format used for 0- to 9th-level spells}{\i\fs20\cf0 . }{\fs20\cf0 There are two additional entries for epic spells: Spellcraft DC and To Develop. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0 
 This is the DC of the Spellcraft check required to cast the epic spell. When casting an epic spell, the character gains a +5 bonus on his or her Spellcraft check if the base seed of the epic spell is from the character\rquote s arcane sch
ool specialty or primary psionic discipline. The character takes a \endash 15 penalty if the epic spell seed is from his or her prohibited arcane school.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  The first part of this entry shows the resources in gold, time, and experience points a character
 must expend to develop the spell shown. If the character expends the resources, he or she develops the spell if he or she has access to all the seeds. Spells containing the }{\i\fs20\cf0 life }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 heal }{\fs20\cf0 
seed are typically only available to those with 24 or more ranks in K
nowledge (religion) or Knowledge (nature). The rest of the development entry details the seeds and factors used to create the epic spell. This information is provided as an example for characters when they attempt to create and develop their own unique ep
ic spells. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Animus Blast 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Cold] 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  50 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  300 ft. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  20-ft.-radius hemisphere burst 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Reflex half 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  450,000 gp; 9 days; 18,000 XP. Seeds: }{\i\fs20\cf0 energy }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 19), }{\i\fs20\cf0 animate dead }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 23). Factors: set undead type to skeleton (\endash 12 DC), 1-action casting time (+20 DC). 

\par When this spell is cast, enemies within range are dealt 10d6 points of cold damage. However, up to tw
enty of those victims that perish as a result of this blast are then instantly animated as Medium skeletons. These skeletons serve the character indefinitely. The character cannot exceed the normal limit for controlling undead through use of this spell, b
ut other means that allow the character to exceed the normal limit for controlled undead work just as well with undead created with }{\i\fs20\cf0 animus blas}{\fs20\cf0 t. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Animus Blizzard 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Cold] 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  78 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  300 ft. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  20-ft.-radius hemisphere burst
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Reflex half 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  702,000 gp; 15 days; 28,080 XP. Seeds: }{\i\fs20\cf0 energy }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 19), }{\i\fs20\cf0 animate dead }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 23). Factors: increase damage to 30d6 (+40 DC), set undead type to wight (\endash 4 DC). 

\par When this spell is cast, enemies within range are dealt 30d6 points of cold damage. However, up to five victims that perish as a result of this blast are then instantly animated as wights. These five wights serve the character ind
efinitely. The character cannot exceed the normal limit for controlling undead through use of this spell, but other means that allow the character to exceed the normal limit for controlled undead work just as well with undead created with }{\i\fs20\cf0 
animus blizzar}{\fs20\cf0 d. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Contingent Resurrection 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Healing) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  52 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S , D F
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  You or creature touched 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Contingent until expended, then instantaneous 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None (see text) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (harmless) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  468,000 gp; 10 days; 18,720 XP. Seed: }{\i\fs20\cf0 life }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 27). Factor: activates when subject is slain (+25 DC). 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Contingent resurrection }{\fs20\cf0 returns the subject to life if he or she is slain. Once cast, the spell remains quiescen
t and does not activate until the trigger conditions have been met (but each day it remains untriggered, it uses up an epic spell slot, even if the character cast it on another creature). Once triggered, the spell is expended. If the subject is killed (th
e trigger), he or she is restored to life and complete health 1 minute later, so long as even a tiny bit of dust remains for }{\i\fs20\cf0 contingent resurrection }{\fs20\cf0 
to act upon. A shaft of light shines down from the heavens, illuminating the subject and everything within 2
0 feet. The creature is restored to full hit points, vigor, and health, with no loss of prepared spells. However, the subject loses one level (or 1 point of Constitution if the subject was 1st level). }{\i\fs20\cf0 Contingent resurrection }{\fs20\cf0 
does not work on a creature that has died of old age. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Create Living Vault }{\b0\fs20 (Ritual)
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Creation) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  58 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, XP 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  100 days, 11 minutes 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  0 ft. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  One living vault, 50 ft. by 50 ft. by 10 ft. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  None 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  540,000 gp; 11 days; 21,600 XP. Seeds: }{\i\fs20\cf0 animate }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 25) large chunk of stone, }{\i\fs20\cf0 fortify }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 27). Factors: allow vault to \'93grow\'94
 to proper size after created in 4d4 days (ad hoc +20 DC), increase HD of object by 
92 (+184 DC), grant magical immunity (ad hoc +105 DC), increase damage reduction to 15 (+28 DC) and to /epic (+15 DC), make permanent (x5 DC). Mitigating factors: increase casting time by 10 minutes (\endash 20 DC), increase casting time by 100 days (
\endash 200 DC), 9d6 backlash (\endash 9 DC), seven additional casters contributing one epic spell slot (\_133 DC), burn 20,000 XP per epic caster (\_1,600 DC). 
\par The character creates a construct known as a living vault to protect and hide his or her treasures. Upon completion, the v
ault initially measures only 5 feet on a side, but it gradually increases to its proper size over the following 4d4 days. The vault is attuned to the character, allowing him or her alone entrance and egress in a manner similar to a }{\i\fs20\cf0 
dimension door }{\fs20\cf0 spell. When the character desires the vault to hide itself, he or she gives it a simple command. To summon the vault, the character may cast a }{\i\fs20\cf0 sending }{\fs20\cf0 spell or arrange some other manner to contact it. 

\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 XP Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 20,000 XP. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Crown of Vermin 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Summoning) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  56 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Personal 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  Aura of one thousand insects that surrounds you in a 10-ft.-radius spread 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  20 rounds (D) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None (see text) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  504,000 gp; 11 days; 20,160 XP. Seeds: }{\i\fs20\cf0 summon }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 14), }{\i\fs20\cf0 fortify }{\fs20\cf0 
(DC 17). Factors: summon vermin mass instead of one creature (ad hoc +8 DC), grant damage reduction 1/epic (+15 DC), allow mass to move at your speed (ad hoc +2 DC), perfect control of vermin (ad hoc +2 DC). Mitigating factor: change range to personal (
\endash 2 DC). 
\par After casting }{\i\fs20\cf0 crown of vermin, }{\fs20\cf0 one thousand venomous, biting and stinging spiders, scorpions, beetles, and centipedes erupt from the very air around the character. This swarm forms a living a
ura around the character to a radius of 10 feet. The character is immune to his or her own }{\i\fs20\cf0 crown of vermi}{\fs20\cf0 
n. The swarm goes where the character goes at his or her speed, even if the character takes to the air or water (though water drowns the vermin after 1
 full round of immersion, unless the spell is cast underwater, in which case aquatic or marine vermin answer the call and cannot leave the water). Each vermin in the }{\i\fs20\cf0 crown of vermin }{\fs20\cf0 
bites a creature who enters the area occupied by the effect (or the charac
ter forces the effect into an area occupied by another creature) for 1 point of damage, and then dies. Each victim takes enough points of damage to kill it, destroying that number of vermin in the process. Victims get a Reflex saving throw each round to a
void the full press, and if successful, take only 10d10 bites (and 10d10 points of damage). A total of 1,000 points of damage can be dealt to those who fall prey to the }{\i\fs20\cf0 crown of vermi}{\fs20\cf0 
n. The vermin have damage reduction 1/epic, so the vermin\rquote s natural weapons are treated as epic for the purpose of overcoming damage reduction. If there aren\rquote t enough vermin to kill all the creatures in the spell\rquote 
s effect, the creature with the fewest hit points is affected first, then the creature with the second fewest hit points, and so on. After all creatures that can be killed have been killed, any remaining damage is distributed among the survivors equally. 

\par The character has utter control over the vermin in his or her aura, and can force them into areas that would normally
 deter common vermin. The character can completely suppress his or her vermin aura as a free action so that no vermin are visible at all. The time that vermin are suppressed does not count toward the spell\rquote 
s duration. Alternatively, the character can roughly shape and move the vermin in any fashion he or she desires within the limits of the 10-foot-radius spread as a move-equivalent action. The vermin cannot be wrested from the character\rquote 
s control through any means. The vermin make all saving throws to avoid damaging effects using the character\rquote s base saving throw bonuses. They gain the character\rquote 
s spell resistance, if any, and they get saving throws against spells that would otherwise automatically slay vermin. A character can see through his or her }{\i\fs20\cf0 crown of vermin }{\fs20\cf0 
without difficulty, but gains one-half concealment against enemy attacks launched both outside and within the character\rquote s }{\i\fs20\cf0 crown of vermi}{\fs20\cf0 n. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Damnation 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Enchantment (Compulsion) [Teleportation] [Mind-Affecting] 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  97 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, XP 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Creature touched 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous (20 hours for compulsion) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Will negates (see text) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  873,000 gp; 18 days; 34,920 XP. Seeds: }{\i\fs20\cf0 foresee }{\fs20\cf0 (to preview likely hellscape) (DC 17), }{\i\fs20\cf0 transport }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 27), }{\i\fs20\cf0 compel }{\fs20\cf0 
(to keep target in hell) (DC 19). Factors: interplanar travel (+4 DC), unwilling target (+4 DC), 1-action casting time (+20 DC), +15 to DC of subject\rquote s save (+30 DC). Mitigating factor: burn 2,400 XP (\endash 24 DC). 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f28\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 
The character sends his or her foe to hell. If the character succeeds at a melee touch attack, the target must succeed at a Will saving throw (DC = the standard epic spell DC + 15). If he or she fails this saving throw, he or she is sent straight to a lay
er of a lawful evil plane (or a chaotic evil plane, at the character\rquote 
s option) swarming with fiends. The subject will not willingly leave the plane for 20 hours, believing that his or her predicament is a just reward for an ill-spent life. Even after the co
mpulsion fades, he or she must devise his or her own escape from the plane. Unless the GM devises a specific location and scenario in the Nine Hells, the subject encounters a group of 1d4 pit fiends (or balors, if in a chaotic evil plane) every hour he or
 she spends in hell. 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i\fs20\cf0 XP Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 2,000 XP. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Demise Unseen 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Necromancy (Death, Evil), Illusion (Figment) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  80 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  300 ft. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One creature of up to 80 HD 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Fort negates 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  738,000 gp; 15 days; 29,520 XP. Seeds: }{\i\fs20\cf0 slay }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 25), }{\i\fs20\cf0 animate dead }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 23), }{\i\fs20\cf0 delude }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 14). Factors: change undead type to ghoul (\endash 
10 DC), apply to all five senses (+8 DC), 1-action casting time (+20 DC). 
\par The character instantly slays a single target and at the same moment animate the body so that it appears that nothing has happened to the creature. The target\rquote 
s companions (if any) do not immediately realize what has transpired. The target receives 
a Fortitude saving throw to survive the attack. If the save fails, the target remains in its exact position with no apparent ill effects. In reality, it is now a ghoul under the character\rquote s control. The target\rquote 
s companions notice nothing unusual about the 
state of the target until they interact with it, at which time each companion receives a Will saving throw to notice discrepancies. The ghoul serves the character indefinitely. The character cannot exceed the normal limit for controlling undead through us
e of this spell, but other means that allow the character to exceed the normal limit for controlled undead work just as well with undead created with }{\i\fs20\cf0 demise unsee}{\fs20\cf0 n. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Dire Winter 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Cold] 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  319 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S , X P 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  1,000 ft. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  1,000-ft.-radius emanation 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  20 hours 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  None 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  2,871,000 gp; 58 days; 114,840 XP. Seed: }{\i\fs20\cf0 energy }{\fs20\cf0 (emanate 2d6 cold in 10-ft. radius) (DC 19). Factor: 100 times increase in base area (+400 DC). Mitigating factor: burn 10,000 XP (\endash 
100 DC). 
\par The creature or object targeted emanates bitter cold to a radius of 1,000 feet for 20 hours. The emanated cold deals 2d6 points of damage per round against unprotected creatures (the ta
rget is susceptible if not magically protected or otherwise resistant to the energy). The intense cold freezes water out of the air, causing constant snowfall and wind. The snow and wind produce a blizzard effect within the area. 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 XP Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 10,000 XP. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Dragon Knight }{\b0\fs20 (Ritual)}{\b0 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Summoning) [Fire] 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  38 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, Ritual 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  75 ft. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  One summoned adult red dragon 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  20 rounds (D) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None (see text) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  342,000 gp; 7 days; 13,680 XP. Seed: }{\i\fs20\cf0 summon }{\fs20\cf0 
(DC 14). Factors: summon creature other than outsider (+10 DC), summon CR 14 creature (+24 DC), 1-action casting time (+20 DC). Mitigating factor: two additional casters contributing 8th-level spell slots (\endash 30 DC). 
\par This spell summons an adult red dragon. It appears where the character designates and acts immediately. It attacks the character\rquote s opponents to the best of its abilities (on the first round, it prefers to breathe fire on an enemy, if 
possible). The character can direct the dragon not to attack, to attack particular enemies, or to perform other actions. This is a ritual spell requiring two other spellcasters, each of which must contribute an unused 8th-level spell slot to the casting. 

\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Dragon Strike }{\b0\fs20 (Ritual)}{\b0 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Summoning) [Fire] 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  50 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, Ritual, XP 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  75 ft. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  Ten summoned adult red dragons 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  20 rounds (D) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None (see text) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  450,000 gp; 9 days; 18,000 XP. Seed: }{\i\fs20\cf0 summon }{\fs20\cf0 
(DC 14). Factors: summon creature other than outsider (+10 DC), summon CR 14 creature (+24 DC), summon ten creatures (x10 DC), 1-action casting time (+20 DC). Mitigating factors: eleven additional casters contributing 9th-level spell slots (\endash 
187 DC), burn 2,000 XP per caster (\endash 240 DC), 3d6 backlash (\_3 DC). 
\par This spell summons ten adult red dragons. They appear where the character designates and act immediately. They attack the character\rquote 
s opponents to the best of their abilities (on the first round, they all prefer to simultaneously breathe fire on an enemy, if possible). The character can direct the dragons not to attack, to attack particular enemies, or to perform other actions. 

\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 XP Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 2,000 XP (per caster). 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Dreamscape 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Conjuration [Teleportation] 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  29 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  You and other touched willing creatures weighing up to 1,000 lb. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous (D) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (harmless) (see text) S
\par pell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  261,000 gp; 6 days; 10,400 XP. Seed: }{\i\fs20\cf0 transport }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 27). Factor: transport to region of dreams (+2 DC). 
\par The character and any creatures he or she touches are drawn into the region of dreams. The character can take more than one creature along (subject to the character\rquote 
s weight limit), but all must be touching each other. The character physically enters the land of dreams, leaving nothing behind. For every minute the character moves through the dream landscape, he or she can \'93wake\'94
 to find him or her self five miles displaced in the waking world. The character does not know precisely where he or she will come out in the waking world, nor the conditions of the waking world through w
hich the character travels. The character knows approximately where he or she will end up based on time spent traveling in dream. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Dreamscape }{\fs20\cf0 
can also be used to travel to other planes that contain creatures that dream, but doing this requires crossing into
 the dreams of outsiders, where the character is subject to the dangers of alien dream realities. This is a potentially perilous proposition. Transferring to another plane of existence requires 1d4 hours of uninterrupted journey. Any creatures touched by 
the character when }{\i\fs20\cf0 dreamscape }{\fs20\cf0 
is cast also make the transition to the borders of unconscious thought. They may opt to follow the character, wander off into the dreams of others, or stumble back into the waking world (50% chance for either of the latter resu
lts if they are lost or abandoned by the character). Creatures unwilling to accompany the character into the region of dreams receive a Will save, negating the effect if successful. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Eclipse 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Creation) [Transportation]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  42 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S , X P 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  10 minutes 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  200 miles 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  5-mile radius, centered on you 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Up to 8 hours (D) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  378,000 gp; 8 days; 15,1200 XP. Seeds: }{\i\fs20\cf0 conjure }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 21), }{\i\fs20\cf0 transport }{\fs20\cf0 (to m
ove disk into position 100 miles up) (DC 27). Factors: increase mass by 1,000% (+40 DC), spread mass into paper-thin disk (ad hoc +2 DC), keep disk in place for 8 hours (ad hoc +10 DC). Mitigating factors: increase casting time by 9 minutes (\endash 
18 DC), burn 4,000 XP (\endash 40 DC). 
\par With this spell, the character can create a limited eclipse, as though a heavenly body moves between the sun and the earth. The landscape within a five-mile radius of the character\rquote s location experiences the dimming of the sun as a disk
 the character creates passes in front of it, culminating in a complete blackout and accompanying coronal ring. The eclipse follows the character across the landscape for up to 8 hours, or until the sun goes down, or until the character dismisses the ecli
pse. The character does not need to concentrate on the eclipse while it lasts. 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 XP Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 4,000 XP. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Eidolon 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Creation) [Transportation]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  79 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S , X P 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  5 ft. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  One duplicate of caster 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  8 hours 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  711,000 gp; 15 days; 28,440 XP. Seed: }{\i\fs20\cf0 conjure }{\fs20\cf0 (to make base substance) (DC 21), }{\i\fs20\cf0 transform }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 21), }{\i\fs20\cf0 transport }{\fs20\cf0 (to move part of caster
\rquote s soul into duplicate) (DC 27). Factors: nonliving substance to humanoid (+10 DC), transform into specific individual (+25 DC). Mitigating factor: burn 2,500 XP (\endash 25 DC). 
\par Upon casting }{\i\fs20\cf0 eidolon, }{\fs20\cf0 the character creates a duplicate version of him or her self as the character was when he or she was a 21
st-level character, and the character gains one negative level while the duplicate persists. For each additional negative level the character bestow upon him or her self at the time of casting, the eidolon has one additional character level. No matter how
 
many negative levels the character bestows on him or her self, the eidolon can never have more character levels than the character has (taking the negative levels into account). Treat the duplicate as the character with a number of negative levels conferr
ed that would lower him or her to the character level of the eidolon. The eidolon is considered fresh and rested when created. It may cast any spell the character has access to, including an epic spell. Use the eidolon\rquote 
s Spellcraft modifier as the basis for the number of epic spells it can cast in a day, and its effective character level as a basis for its skills, feats, and other abilities. The eidolon is effectively lower level than the character and probably can
\rquote t cast all the spells he or she knows. A powerful enough eidolon might conceivably cast the }{\i\fs20\cf0 eidolon }{\fs20\cf0 
spell itself. The eidolon appears in whatever mundane clothing the character desires when initially conjured, but it has no other possessions. It shares part of the character\rquote s soul, so it is the cha
racter for all intents and purposes. The character and his or her }{\i\fs20\cf0 eidolon }{\fs20\cf0 
communicate with each other normally. Usually, the eidolon does not begrudge its brief existence, because it is still part of the character. If the eidolon is killed prior to the expiration of the spell\rquote 
s duration, the character immediately regains the lost levels. Normally, the eidolon does not last long enough to threaten the character with permanent level drain. 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 XP Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 2,500 XP. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Enslave }{\b0\fs20 (Ritual)}{\b0 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting] 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  80
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, XP 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  75 ft. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One living creature 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Permanent
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Will negates 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  720,000 gp; 15 days; 28,800 XP. Seed: compel (DC 19). Factors: stricter compulsion of any creature (ad hoc +11 DC), 1-action casting time (+20 DC), permanent (x5 DC). Mitigating factors: 2d6 backlash (\endash 
2 DC), four additional casters contributing one 9th-level spell slot (\endash 68 DC), burn 2,000 XP per caster (\endash 100 DC).
\par The character makes a permanent thrall of any living creature. The character establishes a telepathic link with the subject\rquote s mind. If the creature has a language, the character can generally force the subject to perform as he or she desir
es, within the limits of its abilities. If the creature has no language, the character can communicate only basic commands. The character knows what the subject is experiencing, but does not receive direct sensory input from it. A subject forced to take a
n action against its nature receives a saving throw with a penalty of \endash 10 to resist taking that particular action, but if it succeeds, it still remains the character\rquote 
s thrall despite its minor mutiny. Once a subject makes a successful saving throw to resist a specific order, it makes all future saving throws to resist taking that specific action without a penalty. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Protection from evil }{\fs20\cf0 
or a similar spell can prevent the character from exercising control or using the telepathic link while the subject is so protected, but it does not prevent the establishment of }{\i\fs20\cf0 enslave }{\fs20\cf0 or dispel it. 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 XP Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 2,000 XP. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Epic Counterspell 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Abjuration 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  69 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  300 ft. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One creature or object 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  621,000 gp; 13 days; 24,840 XP. Seed: }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 19). Factors: +30 to dispel check (+30 DC), 1-action casting time (+20 DC). 
\par To use }{\i\fs20\cf0 epic counterspel}{\fs20\cf0 l, select an opponent as the target. T
he character does this by readying an action, electing to wait to complete his or her action until the opponent tries to cast a spell (the character may still move his or her speed, because readying a counterspell is a standard action). If the target trie
s to cast a spell, make a dispel check: Roll d20+40 against a DC of 11 + the foe\rquote s caster level. If the check is successful, the character\rquote s spell negates the foe\rquote s spell. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Epic Mage Armor 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Creation) [Force] 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  46 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Creature touched 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  24 hours (D) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Will negates (harmless) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (harmless) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  414,000 gp; 9 days; 16,560 XP. Seed: }{\i\fs20\cf0 armor }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 14). Factor: +16 additional armor bonus (+32 DC). 
\par An invisible but tangible field of force surrounds the subject of }{\i\fs20\cf0 epic mage armor, }{\fs20\cf0 providing a +20 armor bonus to Armor Class. Unlike mundane armor, }{\i\fs20\cf0 epic mage armor }{\fs20\cf0 
entails no armor check penalty, arcane spell failure chance, or speed reduction. Because }{\i\fs20\cf0 epic mage armor }{\fs20\cf0 is made of force, incorporeal creatures can\rquote t bypass it the way they do normal armor. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Epic Repulsion 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Abjuration 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  52 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  10 minutes 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Object or creature touched 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Permanent 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  468,000 gp; 10 days; 18,720 XP. Seed: }{\i\fs20\cf0 ward }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 14). Factor: permanent \u-4056\'3f5 DC). Mitigating factor: increase casting time by 9 minutes (\endash 18 DC). 
\par The character can create a permanent ward against a specific creature type. Any creature of the specified type cannot attack or touch the warded creature or
 object. The protection ends if the warded creature makes an attack against or intentionally moves to within 5 feet of a specified creature. Spell resistance can allow a creature to overcome this protection and touch the warded creature. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Epic Spell Reflection 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Abjuration
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  68 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S , X P 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  41 days, 11 minutes 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Object or creature touched 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Permanent 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sl-240\slmult0\widctlpar\tx432\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f28\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0 To Develop:}{\f0  630,000 gp; 13 days; 25,200 XP. Se
ed: reflect (DC 27). Factors: reflect up to 9th-level spells (+160 DC), change range to touch (+2 DC), permanent (x5 DC). Mitigating factors: increase casting time by 10 minutes (\endash 20 DC), increase casting time by 41 days (\endash 
82 DC), 20d6 backlash (\endash 20 DC), six additional casters contributing one 8th-level spell slot (\endash 90 DC), burn 9,500 XP per caster (\endash 665 DC).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 
The character can create a permanent ward against all spells of 1st through 9th level that target the subject. These spells are reflected back on the caster. Spells that affect an area are not affected by this spell. 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 XP Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 9,500 XP. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Eternal Freedom 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Abjuration 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  150 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, Ritual, XP 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Touched creature or object of 2,000 lb. or less 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Permanent 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Will negates 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  1,350,000 gp; 27 days; 54,000 XP. Seed: }{\i\fs20\cf0 ward }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 14). Factors: specific protections }{\i\fs20\cf0 entangle }{\fs20\cf0 (+0 DC), }{\i\fs20\cf0 hold monster }{\fs20\cf0 (+8 DC), }{\i\fs20\cf0 
hold person }{\fs20\cf0 (+4 DC), }{\i\fs20\cf0 imprisonment }{\fs20\cf0 (+16 DC), paralysis (ad hoc +6 DC), petrification (ad hoc +6 DC), }{\i\fs20\cf0 sleep }{\fs20\cf0 (+0 DC), }{\i\fs20\cf0 slow }{\fs20\cf0 (+4 DC), stunning (ad hoc +6 DC), }{
\i\fs20\cf0 temporal stasis }{\fs20\cf0 (+16 DC), and }{\i\fs20\cf0 web }{\fs20\cf0 (+4 DC); permanent \u-4056\'3f5 DC). Mitigating factors: ten additional casters contributing 9th-level spell slots (\endash 170 DC), burn 10,000 XP (\endash 100 DC). 

\par The subject becomes permanently immune to the following specific spells, effects, and spell-like abilities: }{\i\fs20\cf0 entangl}{\fs20\cf0 e, }{\i\fs20\cf0 hol}{\fs20\cf0 d, }{\i\fs20\cf0 imprisonmen}{\fs20\cf0 t, paralysis, petrification, }{
\i\fs20\cf0 slee}{\fs20\cf0 p, }{\i\fs20\cf0 slo}{\fs20\cf0 w, stunning, }{\i\fs20\cf0 temporal stasi}{\fs20\cf0 s, and }{\i\fs20\cf0 we}{\fs20\cf0 b. This is a
 ritual spell requiring ten other spellcasters, each of whom must contribute an unused 9th-level spell slot to the casting. 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 XP Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 10,000 XP. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Greater Spell Resistance 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Transmutation 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  45 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, Ritual 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Creature touched 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  20 hours 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Will negates (harmless) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (harmless) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  405,000 gp; 9 days; 16,200 XP. Seed: }{\i\fs20\cf0 fortify }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 27). Factor: +10 additional SR (+40 DC). Mitigating factor: two additional casters contributing 6th-level spell slots (\endash 22 DC). 
\par The character grants the subject touched spell resistance 35 until the duration expires. The spell resistance granted does not stack, but overlaps with, any previous spell resistance. This
 is a ritual spell, requiring two other spellcasters, each of whom must contribute an unused 6th-level spell slot to the casting. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Greater Ruin 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Transmutation 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  59 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S , X P 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  12,000 ft. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One creature, or up to a 10-foot cube of nonliving matter 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Fortitude half 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  531,000 gp; 11 days; 21,240 XP. Seed: }{\i\fs20\cf0 destroy }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 29). Factors: increase damage to 35d6 (+30 DC), 1-action casting time (+20 DC).Mitigating factor: burn 2,000 XP (\endash 20 DC). 
\par The character deals 35d6 points of damage to a single target within range and line of sight. If the target is reduced to \endash 10 hit points or less (or a construct, object, or undead is r
educed to 0 hit points), it is utterly destroyed as if disintegrated. Only a trace of fine dust remains. }{\i\fs20\cf0 XP Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 2,000 XP.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Hellball 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Acid, Fire, Electricity, Sonic] 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  90 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S , X P 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  300 ft. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  40-ft.-radius spread 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Reflex half 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  810,000 gp; 17 days; 32,400 XP. Seed: }{\i\fs20\cf0 energy }{\fs20\cf0 (deals 10d6 each of acid, fire, electricity, sonic) (DC 76). Factors: double base
 area (+6 DC), 1-action casting time (+20 DC). Mitigating factors: 10d6 backlash (\endash 10 DC), burn 200 XP (\endash 2 DC).
\par A }{\i\fs20\cf0 hellball}{\fs20\cf0  deals 10d6 points of acid damage, 10d6 points of fire damage, 10d6 points of electricity damage, and 10d6 points of sonic damage to a
ll creatures within the area. Unattended objects also take this damage. The character takes 10d6 points of damage upon casting (in addition to burning 200 XP). The character points his or her finger and determine the range (distance and height) at which t
he }{\i\fs20\cf0 hellball }{\fs20\cf0 is to detonate. A sun-bright, fist-sized globe of energy streaks forth and, unless it impacts a material body or solid barrier prior to attaining the indicated range, expands into its full area.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 XP Cost: 2}{\fs20\cf0 00 XP. 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f28\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Kinetic Control 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Abjuration 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  100 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Personal; touch 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  You; creature or object touched 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  12 hours or until discharged 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  927,000 gp; 19 days; 37,080 XP. Seeds: }{\i\fs20\cf0 ward }{\fs20\cf0 (5 points against bludgeoning and piercing) (DC 14), }{\i\fs20\cf0 reflect }{\fs20\cf0 
(DC 27). Factors: also against slashing (+4 DC), additional 15 points of protection (+30 DC), contingent reflection of damage on creature touched (+25 DC). 
\par Once a character has cast this spell, he or she can absorb, store, and re
direct the energy contained in any physical (melee or ranged) attack. The character absorbs 20 points of each separate slashing, bludgeoning, and piercing attack made against him or her, saving it for later. A character can absorb up to 150 points of dama
g
e in this fashion; however, if the stored damage is not discharged prior to reaching the 150-point limit, the spell automatically discharges, dealing the 150 points of damage to the character. The character keeps track of the number of points of damage he
 or she has absorbed (the character doesn\rquote t have to keep track of the type of damage). At any time during the spell\rquote 
s duration, the character can make a touch attack against another creature or object. If successful, the character deals the target some or all (character\rquote 
s choice) of the points of damage he or she has stored. The damage delivered is considered bludgeoning damage. A character can absorb and discharge damage any number of times during the spell\rquote s duration, so long as the character doesn\rquote t abso
rb more than 150 points at a time. When the spell expires, any stored damage the character has not redirected is discharged into the character. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Let Go of Me 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Transmutation 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  43 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  None 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 free action 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch (see text) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One creature or force grappling you 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Fortitude half 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  387,000 gp; 8 days; 15,480 XP. Seed: }{\i\fs20\cf0 destroy }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 29). Factors: quickened (+28 DC), no verbal or somatic components (+4 DC). Mitigating factors: limited circumstance (ad hoc \endash 
8 DC), 10d6 backlash (\endash 10 DC). 
\par The character deals 20d6 points of damage to any creature grappling him or her. The damage dealt is of no particular type or energy\emdash it is a purely destructive impulse. If grappled by a magical force the force is automatically destroyed.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Living Lightning 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Electricity] 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  140 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  None 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  300 ft. or 150 ft. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  A bolt 5 ft. wide by 300 ft. long, or 10 ft. wide by 150 ft. long 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Reflex half 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  1,260,000 gp; 26 days; 50,400 XP. Seeds: }{\i\fs20\cf0 life }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 27), }{\i\fs20\cf0 energy }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 19). Factors: 1-action casting time (+20 DC), no verbal or somatic co
mponents (+4 DC), giving life to a spell (ad hoc x2 DC). 
\par The character develops a spell that he or she can cast; thereafter, the spell can effectively \'93cast itself.\'94 When the character casts the spell, a stroke of energy deals 10d6 points of electricity damage to each creature within the spell\rquote 
s area. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Living lightning }{\fs20\cf0 follows all the standard rules for epic spell casting when the character casts it. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Living lightning }{\fs20\cf0 is sentient and generally friendly toward the character. It has the character
\rquote s mental ability scores, but it has no physical ability scores. It senses the world through the character\rquote s senses and communicates with him or her by thought. As a self-triggering spell, it isn\rquote 
t truly alive but is a fragment of the character\rquote s personality. It cares little for the world around it, but at the character\rquote 
s urging (and sometimes at its own discretion) it casts itself at his or her foes. Casters who prepare spells before casting must prepare }{\i\fs20\cf0 living lightning }{\fs20\cf0 normally in order for it to cast itself. When the
 spell casts itself, it acts on the character\rquote s initiative but does not count against his or her own actions in the round. The character cannot simultaneously cast }{\i\fs20\cf0 living lightning }{\fs20\cf0 
while it is casting its own effect, even if it has been prepared more than once. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Living lightning }{\fs20\cf0 uses up one of the character\rquote 
s epic spell slots for the day whenever it casts itself. When the character has used up all his or her epic spell slots for the day (or has cast all his or her prepared }{\i\fs20\cf0 living lightning }{\fs20\cf0 spells, if a caste
r who must prepare spells), }{\i\fs20\cf0 living lightning }{\fs20\cf0 becomes quiescent. It remains so until the character has rested to regain his or her epic spell slots for the next day. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Lord of Nightmares 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Summoning) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  50 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, X P 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  75 ft. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  One summoned creature 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  20 rounds 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  450,000 gp; 9 days; 18,000 XP. Seed: }{\i\fs20\cf0 summon }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 14). Factors: summon CR 31 creature (+58 DC), allow creature to possess body and act at its own discretion (ad hoc \endash 
20 DC), 1-action casting time (+20 DC). Mitigating factors: 12d6 backlash (\endash 12 DC), burn 1,000 XP (\endash 10 DC). 
\par The character is possessed by a dream larva. For 20 rounds, the dream larva\rquote s body physically replaces the character\rquote s, though the dream larva has the character\rquote 
s equipment. The dream larva is free to call on all its own powers and abilities, or use the character\rquote s equipment. The character\rquote s consciousness and physical form are suppressed for
 the duration of the possession. The character has no way to dismiss the spell, communicate, or otherwise maintain awareness once possession has commenced. The dream larva, temporarily freed from its imprisonment in some distant nightmare, will attempt to
 slay and incapacitate any creature it can see or find, whether it is a friend or foe of the caster. Casting }{\i\fs20\cf0 lord of nightmares }{\fs20\cf0 entails some risk for the caster, since it\rquote 
s unknown what a dream larva might do over the course of 20 rounds. The larva will dis
patch all enemies it can find before turning to its own concerns. Sometimes a dream larva will attempt to place itself in a dangerous or precarious situation prior to the end of the spell, leaving the caster to extricate him or herself. If the dream larva
 is slain during the duration of the spell, the character\rquote s consciousness is instantly restored to aware-ness within his or her own body. The character\rquote s condition remains what it was when he or she completed casting }{\i\fs20\cf0 
lord of nightmare}{\fs20\cf0 s, regardless of what damage the dream larva received. However, magic item charges used, potions consumed, and other physical resources used up by the dream larva are permanent. 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 XP Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 1,000 XP. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Mass Frog 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Transmutation 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  55 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  300 ft. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  40-ft.-radius hemisphere 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Permanent 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Fortitude negates 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  495,000 gp; 10 days; 19,800 XP. Seed: }{\i\fs20\cf0 transform }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 21). Factors: change target to area of 20-ft. hemisphere (+10 DC), increase area by 100% (+4 DC), 1 action casting time (+20 DC). 
\par This epic spell turns all Medium or smaller creatures in the area into frogs. The transformed creatures retain their mental faculties, including personality, Intelligence, Wis
dom, and Charisma scores, level and class, hit points (despite any change in Consitution score), alignment, base attack bonus, base save bonuses, extraordinary abilities, spells, and spell-like abilities, but not supernatural abilities. They assume the ph
ysical characteristics of frogs, including natural size and Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution scores. (Use the statistics for the toad.) All the creatures\rquote  equipment drops to the ground upon transformation. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Momento Mori 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Necromancy [Death] 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  86 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  None 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 quickened action 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  300 ft. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One living creature 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Fortitude partial (see text) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  774,000 gp; 16 days; 30,960 XP. Seed: }{\i\fs20\cf0 slay }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 25). Factor: increase to 160 HD (+8 DC), quickened (+28 DC), no verbal or somatic components (+4 DC), +10 to DC of subject\rquote 
s save (+20 DC). 
\par As a free action that counts as a quickened spell, the character wills the target dead without a word or gesture. The character\rquote 
s thought snuffs out the life force of a living creature of 160 or fewer HD, killing it instantly. The subject is entitled to a Fortitude saving throw (DC 30 + relevant ability modifier) to have a chance of surviving the attack. If the save i
s successful, the target instead takes 3d6+20 points of damage. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Mummy Dust 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Necromancy [Evil] 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  35 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S ,M, XP 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  Two 18-HD mummies 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  315,000 gp; 7 days; 12,600 XP. Seed: }{\i\fs20\cf0 animate dead }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 23). Factors: 1-action casting time (+20 DC). Mitigating factors: burn 400 XP (\endash 4 DC), expensive material component (ad hoc 
\endash 4 DC). 
\par When the character sprinkles the dust of ground mummies in conjunction with casting }{\i\fs20\cf0 mummy dus}{\fs20\cf0 t, two Large 18-HD mummies (see below) spring up from the dust in an area adjacent to the character. The mummies follow the character
\rquote s every command according to their abilities, until they are destroyed or the character loses control of them by attempting to control more Hit Dice of undead than he or she has caster levels. 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 Specially prepared mummy dust (10,000 gp). 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 XP Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 2,000 XP. 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\cf2\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cf0 Mummy, Advanced: CR 8; Large undead; H
D 18d12+3; hp 120; Init -1; Spd 20 ft.; AC 20, touch 8, flat-footed 20; Base Atk +9; Grp +24; Atk +20 melee (1d8+16 plus mummy rot); Full Atk +20 melee (1d8+16 plus mummy rot); Space/Reach 10 ft./10 ft.; SA Despair, mummy rot; SQ Damage reduction 5/
\endash , darkvision 60 ft., undead traits, vulnerability to fire; AL LE; SV Fort +8, Ref +7, Will +13; Str 32, Dex 8, Con --, Int 6, Wis 14, Cha 15. }{\i\cf0 Skills and Feats:}{\cf0 
 Hide -5, Listen +9, Move Silently +10, Spot +9; Alertness, Blind-Fight, Great Fortitude, Lightning Reflexes, Power Attack, Toughness, Weapon Focus (slam).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 
Despair (Su): At the sight of a mummy, the viewer must succeed at a Will save (DC 21), or be paralyzed with fear for 1d4 rounds. Whether or not the save is successful, that creature cannot be affected again by that mummy\rquote 
s despair ability for one day. Mummy Rot (Su): Supernatural disease\emdash slam, Fortitude save (DC 21), incubation period 1 minute; damage 1d6 Con and 1d6 Cha. The save DC is Charisma-based. Unlike normal diseases, mummy rot continues until the
 victim reaches Constitution 0 (and dies) or is cured as described below.  Mummy rot is a powerful curse, not a natural disease. A character attempting to cast any conjuration (healing) spell on a creature afflicted with mummy rot must succeed on a DC 20 
caster level check, or the spell has no effect on the afflicted character. To eliminate mummy rot, the curse must first be broken with }{\i\fs20\cf0 break enchantment }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 remove curse }{\fs20\cf0 
(requiring a DC 20 caster level check for either spell), after which a caster level check is no longer necessary to cast healing spells on the victim, and the mummy rot can be magically cured as any normal disease.
\par An afflicted creature who dies of mummy rot shrivels away into sand and dust that blow away into nothing at the first wind.}{\cf0 
\par }{\fs20\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Nailed to the Sky 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Conjuration [Teleportation] 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  62 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S ,XP 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  300 ft. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Creature or object weighing up to 1,000 lb. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Will negates 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  558,000 gp; 12 days; 22,320 XP. Seeds: }{\i\fs20\cf0 foresee }{\fs20\cf0 (to preview endpoint of teleportation) (DC 17), }{\i\fs20\cf0 transport }{\fs20\cf0 
(DC 27). Factors: unwilling target (+4 DC), increase range from touch (+4 DC), 1-action casting time (+20 DC). Mitigating factor: burn 1,000 XP (\endash 10 DC). 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Nailed to the sky }{\fs20\cf0 
actually places the target so far from the surface of the world and at such a speed that it keeps missing the surface as it falls back, so it enters an eternal orbit. Unless the target can magically fly or has some 
other form of non-physical propulsion available, the target is stuck until someone else rescues it. Even if the target can fly, the surface is 2 to 4 hours away, assuming a }{\i\fs20\cf0 fly }{\fs20\cf0 
spell, which allows a maximum speed of 720 feet per round while descending. The target may not survive that long. Depending on the world where }{\i\fs20\cf0 nailed to the sky }{\fs20\cf0 
is cast, conditions so far from its surface may be deadly. Deleterious effects include scorching heat, cold, and vacuum. Targets subject to these conditions take 2d6 points o
f damage each from heat or cold and 1d4 points of damage from the vacuum each round. The target immediately begins to suffocate. 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 XP Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 1,000 XP. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Origin of Species: Achaierai 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Creation, Healing)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  38 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, DF, XP 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  100 days, 11 minutes 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  0 ft. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  One constructed creature up to Medium (20 cu. ft.) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Permanent 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  360,000 gp; 8 days; 14,400 XP. Seeds: conjure (DC 21), life (DC 27), 
fortify (DC 17). Factors: +4 HD (5 hp per HD) (+20 DC), +6 to natural AC (+12 DC), add three more natural attacks (ad hoc +6 DC), add black cloud spell-like ability (+33 DC), add SR 19 (+15 DC), permanent (x5 DC). Mitigating factors: 50d6 backlash (
\endash 50 DC), increase casting time by 10 minutes (\endash 20 DC), increase casting time by 100 days (\endash 200 DC), burn 10,000 XP (\endash 100 DC), eleven additional casters contributing 9th-level spell slots (\endash 
187 DC), ten additional casters contributing 8th-level spell slots (\endash 150 DC), ten additional casters contributing 1st-level spell slots (\endash 10 DC).
\par This spell creates a new creature: an achaierai. When first created, the achaierai is Medium, but it grows to Large size in 1d4 days. A created achaierai does not possess the treasure,
 culture, or specific knowledge of a normal achaierai. If released to be among its own kind, it quickly picks up achaierai traits and alignment. 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 XP Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 10,000 XP. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Peripety 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Abjuration 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  27 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Personal 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  You 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  12 hours 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  243,000 gp; 5 days; 9,720 XP. Seed: }{\i\fs20\cf0 reflect }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 27). 
\par Ranged attacks targeted against the character rebound on the original attacker. Any time during the duration, five attacks are automatically refl
ected back on the original attacker; the character decides which attacks before damage is rolled. The reflected attack rebounds on the attacker using the same attack roll. Once five attacks are so reflected, the spell ends. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Pestilence 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Conjuration, Necromancy 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  104 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, Ritual, XP 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  10 minutes 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  0 ft. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  1,000-ft.-radius hemisphere 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Fortitude negates 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  936,000 gp; 19 days; 37,440 XP.
 Seed: afflict (DC 19). Factors: additional target type (plants) (+10 DC). change target to area (+10 DC), change 20-ft. radius to 1,000-ft. radius (+200 DC), disease effects (as per contagion spell) (ad hoc +21 DC). Mitigating factors: casting time incre
ased by 9 minutes (\endash 18 DC), two additional casters contributing epic spell slots (\endash 38 DC), burn 10,000 XP (\endash 100 DC).
\par When }{\i\fs20\cf0 pestilence }{\fs20\cf0 is successfully cast, a wave of illness radites outward from the site of the ritual, instantly infecting every living thing 
in the area with the debilitating disease known as slimy doom. Within 24 hours, everything in the area begins to show signs of rot and decay.
\par Each day that a victim fails a Fortitude save, it takes 1d4 points of temporary Constitution damage. If the victim
 then fails a second save, 1 point of that damage is permanent drain. If the victim succeeds at the first saving throw of the day on consecutive days, he or she has recovered from the disease. This magical form of the disease is not contagious and will no
t
 spread beyond those initially infected. Fruits and vegetables infected with slimy doom are unfit for consumption, as are disease-ridden livestock. This is a ritual spell requiring two other spellcasters, each of whom must expend an unused epic spell slot
 for the casting. The primary caster must also burn 10,000 XP. 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 XP Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 10,000 XP. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Rain of Fire 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Fire] 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  50 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  0 ft. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  2-mile-radius emanation 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  20 hours 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Reflex negates (see text) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  450,000 gp; 9 days; 18,000 XP. Seeds: }{\i\fs20\cf0 energy (fire) }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 19), }{\i\fs20\cf0 energy (weather) }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 19). Factor: change rain to wisps of flame (ad hoc +12 DC). 
\par This spell summons a swirling thunderstorm that ra
ins fire rather than raindrops down on the character and everything within a two-mile radius of him or her. Everything caught unprotected or unsheltered in the flaming deluge takes 1 point of fire damage each round. A successful Reflex save results in no 
d
amage, but the save must be repeated each round. Unless the ground is exceedingly damp, all vegetation is eventually blackened and destroyed, leaving behind a barren wasteland similar to the aftermath of a grass or forest fire. The fiery storm is stationa
ry and persists even if the caster leaves. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Raise Island 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Creation) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  38 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, XP, Ritual
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  65 days, 11 minutes 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  0 ft. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  100-ft.-radius hemispherical island 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Permanent
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  360,000 gp; 8 days; 14,400 XP. Seed: conjure (DC 21). Factors: change area to 10-ft. radius, 30-ft. high cylinder (+2 DC), change radius to 100 ft. (+40 DC), change height to 1,000 feet (+133 DC), permanent (x5 DC). 
Mitigating factors: increase casting time by 10 minutes (\endash 20 DC), increase casting time by 65 days (\endash 130 DC), nineteen additional casters contributing epic spell slots (\endash 
361 DC), one additional caster contributing one 6th-level spell slot (\endash 11 DC), burn 2,000 XP per epic caster (\endash 400 DC), spell only works on liquid (ad hoc \endash 20 DC).
\par The character can literally raise a new island from out of the sea, bringing to the surface a sandy or rocky but otherwise barren protrusion that is solid, stable, and permanentl
y established. The island is roughly circular and about 200 feet in diameter. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Raise island }{\fs20\cf0 only works if the ocean is less than 1,000 feet deep where the spell is cast.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 XP Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 2,000 XP. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Ruin 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Transmutation 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  27 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, X P 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 full round 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  12,000 ft. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One creature, or up to a 10-foot cube of nonliving matter 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Fortitude half 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  243,000 gp; 5 days; 9,720 XP. Seed: }{\i\fs20\cf0 destroy }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 29). Factor: reduce casting time by 9 rounds (+18 DC). Mitigating factor: burn 2,000 XP (\endash 20 DC). 
\par The character deals 20d6 points of damage to a single target within range and line of sight. If the target is reduced to \endash 10 hit points or less (or a construct, obj
ect, or undead is reduced to 0 hit points), it is utterly destroyed as if disintegrated. Only a trace of fine dust remains. 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 XP Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 2,000 XP. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Safe Time 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Conjuration [Teleportation] 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  64 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  You or creature touched 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Contingent until expended, then 1 round of safe time 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  576,000 gp; 12 days; 23,040 XP. Seed: }{\i\fs20\cf0 transport }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 27). Factors: move to time stream (+8 DC), reduc
e static time to 1 round (ad hoc +4 DC), activates when you would otherwise take 50 or more points of damage (+25 DC). 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Safe time }{\fs20\cf0 can move the character (or the target) out of harm\rquote s way by shunting him or her into a static time stream. Once cast, the spel
l remains quiescent and does not activate until the trigger conditions have been met. Each day it remains untriggered, it uses up an epic spell slot, even if you cast it on another creature. Once triggered, the spell is expended normally. When the charact
er would otherwise be subject to any instantaneous effect that would deal him or her 50 or more points of damage, he or she is instead transported to a static time stream where time ceases to flow. The character\rquote s condition becomes fixed\emdash 
no force or effect 
can harm him or her until 1 round of real time has passed. Thus, the character avoids the damage he or she would otherwise receive, but the character also misses out on one round of activity. To the character, no time passes at all, but to onlookers who a
re part of real time, the character stands frozen and fixed in space for 1 full round. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Soul Dominion 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Divination, Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting] 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  72 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  10 minutes 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  See text 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One other living creature 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  20 minutes (D) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Will negates (see text) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  648,000 gp; 13 days; 25,920 XP. Seeds: }{\i\fs20\cf0 contact }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 23), }{\i\fs20\cf0 reveal }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 19), }{\i\fs20\cf0 compel }{\fs20\cf0 
(DC 19). Factors: apply to all five senses (+8 DC), total compulsory control (+10 DC), stricter compulsion of any creature (ad hoc +11 DC). Mitigating factor: increase casting time by 9 minutes (\endash 18 DC). 
\par When a character casts this spell, he or she is temporarily able to take control of another sentient creature wi
th whom the character is familiar (by meeting, observing, or successfully scrying the subject). The target receives a Will save, and if successful, prevents the character from making the telepathic connection. The target is aware of the attempted takeover
 as a strange, momentary tingling. If the Will save fails, the character is able to control the subject\rquote 
s body as if it were his or her own, hearing, seeing, feeling, smelling, and tasting everything the target senses. Once the character dismisses the spell
 or its duration ends, the target resumes control of its body, fully aware of all events that occurred, having been a helpless witness trapped inside its own body. The target knows the name and general nature of its possessor if it succeeds at an addition
al Will saving throw. A character cannot control undead or incorporeal creatures with }{\i\fs20\cf0 soul dominio}{\fs20\cf0 n.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Soul Scry 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Divination 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  55 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  10 minutes 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  See text 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One other living creature 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  20 minutes (D) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Will negates 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  495,000 gp; 10 days; 19,800 XP. Seeds: }{\i\fs20\cf0 contact }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 23), }{\i\fs20\cf0 reveal }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 19), }{\i\fs20\cf0 conceal }{\fs20\cf0 
(DC 17). Factors: apply to all five senses (+8 DC), conceal detection (ad hoc +6 DC). Mitigating factor: increase casting time by 9 minutes (\endash 18 DC). 
\par When a character casts this spell, he or she is temporarily able to tap the consciousness of another sentient creature with whom the character is familiar (by meeting, observing, or successfully scrying the sub
ject), experiencing everything he or she does with all five senses. The target receives a Will save, and if successful, prevents the character from making the telepathic connection. Whether the saving throw is successful or not, the target is unaware of t
h
e attempted intrusion. Once the subject is tapped, the character is able to hear, see, feel, smell, and taste everything the subject senses. The character cannot control the subject, however. The character can only see what the subject chooses to look at,
 and the character tastes something only if the subject eats or drinks it during the spell\rquote s duration. During this time, the character\rquote 
s own body remains in a trance-like state. If the subject takes damage, the character senses the injuries, although his or her own body does not actually suffer any ill effects. If the subject is knocked unconscious or killed, the spell immediately ends. 

\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Spell Worm 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting] 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  45 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  75 ft. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One living creature 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  20 hours or until completed 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Will negates 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  405,000 gp; 9 days; 16,200 XP. Seed: }{\i\fs20\cf0 compel }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 19). Factors: unobtrusive (ad hoc +6 DC), 1-action casting time (+20 DC). 
\par On a failed save, the subject must spend a standard action each round abandoning his or her highest-level spell (or losing his or her highest-level unused spell slot). Each round, the subject eliminates another spell or spell slot, moving 
to lower-level spells once all the higher-level spells are gone. In the case of prepared spells, the subject decides which spells to abandon at each level. If the subject has more than one standard action allowed in the round, he or she may spend those ac
tions as he or she desires. The subject doesn\rquote 
t realize the spells or spell slots are gone until he or she tries to cast a spell and finds it unavailable. Abandoning a spell slot or losing a spell is standard action, but it does not draw an attack of opport
unity. It is a purely mental exercise not obvious to observers. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Summon Behemoth 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Summoning) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  72 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  75 ft. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  Summoned creature 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  20 rounds (D) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  648,000 gp; 13 days; 25,920 XP. Seed: }{\i\fs20\cf0 summon }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 14). Factors: summon CR 21 creature (DC +38), 1-action casting time (+20 DC). 
\par The character can summon a behemoth to attack his or her enemies. It appears where the character designates and acts immediately, on the character\rquote s turn. It attacks the character\rquote 
s opponents to the best of its ability. If the character can communicate with the creature, he or she can direct it not to attack, to attack particular enemies, 
or to perform other actions. Summoned creatures act normally on the last round of the spell and disappear at the end of their turn. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Superb Dispelling 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Abjuration 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  59 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  300 ft. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One creature or object 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  531,000 gp; 11 days; 21,240 XP. Seed: }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 19). Factors: additional +30 to dispel check (+30 DC), 1-action casting time (+20 DC). Mitigating factor: 10d6 backlash (\endash 10 DC). 

\par As }{\i\fs20\cf0 greater dispel magic}{\fs20\cf0 , except that the maximum bonus on the dispel check is +40, and the character takes 10d6 points of backlash damage. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Time Duplicate 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Conjuration [Teleportation] 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  71 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 free action 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  You 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round (see text) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None (harmless) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  None (harmless) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  639,000 gp; 13 days; 25,560 XP. Seed: }{\i\fs20\cf0 transport }{\fs20\cf0 (to move future you back in time 1 round) (DC 27). Factors: m
ove to time stream (+8 DC), stretch the base temporal effect (ad hoc +8 DC), quickened (+28 DC). 
\par The character snatches him or her self from 1 round in the future, depositing this future self in an adjacent space as a free action that counts as a quickened spell. The character\rquote 
s future self is technically only a possible future self (the time stream is a maelstrom of multiple probabilities), but snatching that future self from 1 round in the future collapses probability, and the possible future becomes the
 definite future. The character and his or her future self are both free to act normally this round (the character has already used up the limit of one quickened spell per round, but his or her duplicate hasn\rquote 
t). The future self has all the resources the character has at the moment he or she finishes casting }{\i\fs20\cf0 time duplicat}{\fs20\cf0 
e. Because the future self was previously only a possibility, his or her resources are not depleted as a result of whatever might occur this round (even if the character dies this round). Likewise, he or she doesn\rquote 
t have any special knowledge of what might occur during this round. Because the future self is still part of the time stream, the round it spends with the character is a round it misses in its own future. Because the chracter\rquote s fut
ure duplicate is also the character, the character misses the next round as well. He or she simply isn\rquote t there. Tampering with the time stream is a tricky business. Here is a round-by-round summary. 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Round One: }{\fs20\cf0 The character casts }{\i\fs20\cf0 time duplicat}{\fs20\cf0 e, the future self from round two arrives, and both act normally. 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Round Two: }{\fs20\cf0 The future self\emdash the character\emdash gets snatched back in time to help the past self. During this round, there are no versions of the character present. 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Round Three: }{\fs20\cf0 The character rejoins the tim
e stream. The character arrives in the same location and condition that the future self ended with at the end of the first round. Any resources (spells, damage, staff charges) the future self used up in round one are gone for real. Record them now. Using 
this spell to snatch a single future self stretches time and probability to its limit; more powerful versions of }{\i\fs20\cf0 time duplicate }{\fs20\cf0 
are not possible. A character cannot bring more than a single future version of him or her self back at one time, nor can a character snatch a version of him or her from farther in the future. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Vengeful Gaze of God 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Transmutation 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  419 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  12,000 ft. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One creature, or up to a 10-foot cube of nonliving matter in line of sight 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Fortitude half 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  3,771,000 gp; 76 days; 150,840 XP. Seed: }{\i\fs20\cf0 destroy }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 29). Factor: increase damage to 305d6 (+570 DC), 1-action casting time (+20 DC). Mitigating factor: 200d6 backlash (\endash 200 DC). 

\par The target of this spell is subject to 305d6 points of damage (or half of that if a Fortitude save succeeds). If the target is reduced to \endash 10 hit points or less (or a construct, object, or undead is reduced to 0 hit point
s), it is utterly destroyed as if disintegrated, leaving behind only a trace of fine dust. The caster is likewise dealt 200d6 points of damage
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Verdigris 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Creation) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  58 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  300 ft. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  100-ft.-radius hemisphere 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  24 hours 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Reflex half 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  522,000 gp; 11 days; 20,880 XP. Seed: }{\i\fs20\cf0 conjure }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 21). Factors: change area to 20-ft. radius hemisphere (+2 DC), increase radius to 100 ft. (+
16 DC), deal 10d6 damage during growth (ad hoc +19 DC). 
\par This spell creates a tsunami of grass, shrubs, and trees that overgrows the area like a tidal wave. The plant growth creeps and curls across every-thing in the area, ensnaring it and coiling around i
t as if it had been growing there for a century or more. Creatures in the area must make a Reflex saving throw to avoid the fast-moving growth, which otherwise deals 10d6 points of damage from the crushing press. Buildings are engulfed and they likewise t
ake 10d6 points of damage. Those destroyed by the damage have their foundations uprooted and walls crumbled. The plant growth remains for 24 hours, after which it vanishes. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Verdigris Tsunami 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Creation) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  170
\par  }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, Ritual, XP 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  10 minutes 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  1,500 ft. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  1,000-ft.-radius hemisphere 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Permanent 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Reflex half 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 To Develop:}{\fs20\cf0  1,530,000 gp; 31 days; 61,200 XP. Seed: conjure (DC 21). Factor: change area to 20-f
t.-radius hemisphere (+2 DC), increase radius to 1,000 ft. (+196 DC), increase range to 1,500 ft. (+8 DC), deal 10d6 damage during growth (ad hoc +19 DC), increase damage to 40d6 (+60 DC), permanent (x5 DC). Mitigating factors: increase casting time by 9 
minutes (\endash 18 DC), eleven additional casters contributing 6th-level spell slots (\endash 121 DC), three additional casters contributing 4th-level spell slots (\endash 21 DC), burn 10,000 XP per 6th-level spell contributor plus caster (\endash 
1,200 DC).
\par This spell creates a tsun
ami of grass, shrubs, and trees that overgrows the area like a tidal wave. The plant growth creeps and curls across every-thing in the area, ensnaring it and coiling around it as if it had been growing there for a century or more. Creatures in the area mu
s
t make a Reflex saving throw to avoid the fast-moving growth, which otherwise deals 40d6 points of damage from the crushing press. Buildings are engulfed and they likewise take 40d6 points of damage. Those destroyed by the damage have their foundations up
rooted and walls crumbled. The plant growth is permanent. This is a ritual spell requiring fourteen other spellcasters, each of whom must contribute an unused 6th-level spell slot to the casting. 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 XP Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 10,000 XP. 
\par }\pard\plain \s7\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel6\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par DEVELOPING EPIC SPELLS 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 An epic spell 
is developed from smaller pieces called seeds and connecting pieces called factors. Every epic seed has a base Spellcraft DC, and every factor has a Spell-craft DC adjustment. When a desired spell is developed, the spellcaster spends resources and time to
 assemble the pieces that make up the epic spell. The base Spellcraft DCs of each seed are added together; then the DC adjustments of the factors are added to that total. The sum equals the final Spellcraft DC for the epic spell. 
\par The final Spellcraft DC is the most significant gauge of the epic spell\rquote s power. A spellcaster attempts to cast an epic spell by making a Spellcraft check against the epic spell\rquote 
s Spellcraft DC. Thus, a spellcaster knows immediately, based on his or her own Spellcraft bonus, what epic spells are within his or her capability to cast, which are risky, and which are beyond him or her. Epic casters don\rquote 
t commit time and money to develop epic spells until they are powerful enough to cast them. 
\par An epic spell developed by an arcane spellc
aster is arcane, and an epic spell developed by a divine spellcaster is divine. A character who can cast both divine and arcane epic spells chooses whether a particular spell he or she develops will be arcane or divine. If that same caster uses the }{
\i\fs20\cf0 heal }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 life }{\fs20\cf0 
seed in an epic spell, that spell is always considered divine. All the epic spells described here can be developed independently by a character who spends the necessary time, money, and experience points. Alternatively, a character can use those spel
ls as a starting point when creating customized versions of the spells. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Table: Epic Seeds 
\par }\trowd \trrh510\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1370\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 
\cellx1355\clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1345\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx2700\clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1581\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4281\clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1119\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5400\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0 
\b\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Seed}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Base Spellcraft DC}{
\b\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20 Seed}{\b\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20 Base Spellcraft DC}{\b\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh510\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1370\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1355\clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1345\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx2700\clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1581\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4281\clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1119\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5400\row }\trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1370\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1355\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1345\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx2700\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1581\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4281\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1119\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5400\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20 Afflict}{\i\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 14}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Energy }{
\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 19}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1370\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1355\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1345\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx2700\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1581\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4281\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1119\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5400\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20 Animate }{\i\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 25}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20 Foresee }{\i\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 17}{
\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1370\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1355\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1345\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx2700\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1581\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4281\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1119\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5400\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20 Animate dead}{\i\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 23}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20 Fortify }{\i\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 17}{
\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1370\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1355\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1345\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx2700\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1581\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4281\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1119\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5400\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20 Armor }{\i\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 14}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20 Heal*}{\i\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 25}{
\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1370\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1355\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1345\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx2700\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1581\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4281\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1119\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5400\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20 Banish }{\i\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 27}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20 Life*}{\i\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 27}{
\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1370\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1355\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1345\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx2700\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1581\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4281\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1119\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5400\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20 Compel }{\i\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 19}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20 Reflect }{\i\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 27}{
\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1370\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1355\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1345\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx2700\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1581\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4281\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1119\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5400\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20 Conceal }{\i\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 17}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20 Reveal }{\i\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 19}{
\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1370\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1355\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1345\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx2700\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1581\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4281\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1119\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5400\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20 Conjure }{\i\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 21}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20 Slay }{\i\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 25}{
\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1370\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1355\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1345\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx2700\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1581\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4281\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1119\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5400\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20 Contact }{\i\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 23}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20 Summon }{\i\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 14}{
\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1370\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1355\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1345\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx2700\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1581\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4281\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1119\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5400\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20 Delude }{\i\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 14}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20 Transform }{\i\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 21}{
\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1370\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1355\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1345\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx2700\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1581\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4281\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1119\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5400\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20 Destroy }{\i\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 29}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20 Transport }{\i\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 27}{
\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1370\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1355\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1345\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx2700\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1581\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4281\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1119\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5400\row }\trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1370\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1355\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1345\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx2700\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1581\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4281\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1119\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5400\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20 Dispel }{\i\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 19}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20 Ward }{\i\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 14}{
\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1370\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1355\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1345\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx2700\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1581\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4281\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1119\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5400\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\cf0 
*Spellcasters without at least 24 ranks in Knowledge (religion) or Knowledge (nature) may not use }{\i\fs20\cf0 heal }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 life }{\fs20\cf0 spell seeds.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Resource Cost:}{\fs20\cf0  The development of an epic spell uses up raw materials costing a number of gold pieces equal to 9,000 xthe final Spellcraft DC of the epic spell being developed. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Development Time:}{\fs20\cf0  Developing an epic spell takes one day for each 50,000 gp in resources required to develop the spell, rounded up to whole days. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 XP Cost:}{\fs20\cf0  To develop an epic spell, a character must spend 1/25 of its resource price in experience points. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Adding Seed DCs: }{\fs20\cf0 When two or more epic seeds are combined in an epic spell, their base Spellcraft DCs are added together. Both contribute toward the spell\rquote s final Spellcraft DC. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Determining School:}{\fs20\cf0  When combining two or more seeds to develop an epic spell, the school of the finished spell is decided by the caster from among the seeds that make up the epic spell. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Combining Descriptors: }{\fs20\cf0 When two or more epic seeds are combined in an epic spell, all the descriptors from each seed apply to the finished spell. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Combining Components and Casting Times: }{\fs20\cf0 Almost every epic spell has verbal and somatic components and a 1-minute casting time, regardless of the number of epic seeds combined. The only exceptions are epic spells with the }{
\i\fs20\cf0 heal }{\fs20\cf0 and }{\i\fs20\cf0 life }{\fs20\cf0 seeds, which have divine focus components. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Combining Range, Targets, Area, and Effect:}{\fs20\cf0 
 One seed might have a range of 12,000 feet, another seed might have a range of 400 feet, and a third seed might not have a range at all. Likewise, some seeds have targets, while others have an effect or an area. To determine 
which seed takes precedence in the finished epic spell, the character must decide which seed is the base seed. The seed most important to the spell\rquote 
s overall purpose is the base seed, and it determines the casting time, range, target, and so on. The other seeds apply only their specific effects to the finished spell. It is occasionally difficult to determine a base seed by examining the spell\rquote 
s effects. If no one seed is most important, simply pick one seed for the purposes of making this determination. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Combining Durations:}{\fs20\cf0 
 When combining two or more seeds to develop an epic spell, the seed with the shortest duration determines the duration of the finished epic spell. If any seed of an epic spell is dismissible by the caster, the epic spell is dismissible. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throws:}{\fs20\cf0 
 Even if more than one seed has an associated saving throw, the final spell will have only a single saving throw. If two or more seeds have the same kind of saving throw (Fortitude, Reflex, or Will), then obviously that will be used for the spell\rquote 
s saving throw. If the seeds have different kinds of saving throws, simply choose the saving throw that seems most appropriate for the final spell. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  When combining two or more seeds to develop an epic spell, if even one seed is subject to spell resistance, the finished epic spell is subject to it as well. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Factors: }{\fs20\cf0 Factors are not part of epic seeds, but they are the tools used to modify specific parameters of any given seed. Applying factors to the seeds of an epic spell can increas
e or decrease the final Spellcraft DC, increase the duration, change the area of a spell, and affect many other aspects of the spell. 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 There are three kinds of factors: 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 1. Those that can affect a number of seeds. 
\par 2. Those that can only be used with specific seeds. 
\par 3. Those that reduce the Spellcraft DC rather than increasing it. These are referred to as mitigating factors. To calculate the final Spellcraft DC of an epic spell correctly, it\rquote s important to determine the mitigating factors last, after all t
he factors that increase the DC have been accounted for. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Development Is an Art:}{\fs20\cf0  Many times developing a completely new epic spell requires some guesswork and rule stretching. As with making and pricing magic items, a sort of balancing act is required. Oft
en the description of a seed will need to be stretched for a particular spell. If necessary, assess an \'93ad hoc\'94 Spellcraft DC adjustment for any effect that cannot be extrapolated from the seeds and factors presented here\emdash 
the example spells use ad hoc factors frequently. In all cases, the GM determines the actual Spellcraft DC of the new spell
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Approval:}{\fs20  This is the final step, and it\rquote 
s critically important. The epic spell development work and reasoning must be shown to the GM and receive his or her approval. If the GM doesn\rquote 
t approve, then the epic spell cannot be developed. However, the GM should explain why the epic spell wasn\rquote t approved and possibly offer suggestions on how to create an epic spell that will be acceptable. 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Table: Epic Spell Factors 
\par }\trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth2\trwWidth4993\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3971\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8003\clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1029\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx10081\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20 Spellcraft DC Modifier}{\b\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth2\trwWidth4993\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3971\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8003\clvertalb
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1029\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx10081\row }\trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth2\trwWidth4993\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3971\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8003
\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1029\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx10081\pard\plain 
\s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Casting Time}{\b\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard\plain \qr \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 
\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth2\trwWidth4993\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3971\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8003
\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1029\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx10081\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 
Reduce casting time by 1 round (minimum 1 round)}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 +2}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd 
\trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth2\trwWidth4993\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3971\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8003\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1029\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx10081\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 1-action casting time}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 +20}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth2\trwWidth4993\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3971\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8003
\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1029\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx10081\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 
Quickened spell (limit one quickened action/round)}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 +28}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 
\trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth2\trwWidth4993\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3971\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8003\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1029\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx10081\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Contingent on specific trigger}{\fs20\super 1}{
\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 +25}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth2\trwWidth4993\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3971\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8003
\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1029\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx10081\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 
Components No verbal component}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 +2}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth2\trwWidth4993\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3971\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8003\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1029\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx10081\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 No somatic component}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 +2}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth2\trwWidth4993\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3971\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8003
\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1029\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx10081\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\i\fs20 
Duration}{\b\fs20\super 2}{\b\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth2\trwWidth4993\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3971\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 
\cellx8003\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1029\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx10081\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20 Increase duration by 100%\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 +2\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth2\trwWidth4993\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3971\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8003
\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1029\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx10081\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 
Permanent duration (apply this factor after all other epic spell factors but before mitigating factors)}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 x5}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth2\trwWidth4993\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3971\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8003\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1029\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx10081\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Dismissible by caster (if not already)}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell 
}\pard \qr \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 +2}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth2\trwWidth4993\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3971\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8003
\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1029\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx10081\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 
Range Increase range by 100%}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 +2}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth2\trwWidth4993\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3971\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8003\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1029\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx10081\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\i\fs20 Target}{\b\fs20\super 3}{\b\fs20  }{\b\fs20\dbch\af29 
\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth2\trwWidth4993\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3971\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8003
\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1029\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx10081\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Add ex
tra target within 300 ft.\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 +10\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth2\trwWidth4993\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3971\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8003
\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1029\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx10081\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 
Change from target to area (pick area option below)}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 +10}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 
\trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth2\trwWidth4993\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3971\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8003\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1029\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx10081\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Change from personal to area (pick area option below)}{
\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 +15}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth2\trwWidth4993\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3971\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8003
\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1029\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx10081\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 
Change from target to touch or ray (300-ft. range)}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 +4}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 
\trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth2\trwWidth4993\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3971\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8003\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1029\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx10081\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Change from touch or ranged touch attack to target}{
\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 +4}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth2\trwWidth4993\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3971\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8003
\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1029\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx10081\row }\pard\plain 
\s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Area}{\b\i0\fs20\super 4}{\b\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard\plain \qr \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 
\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth2\trwWidth4993\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3971\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8003
\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1029\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx10081\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 
Change area to bolt (5 ft. x300 ft. or 10 ft. x150 ft.)}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 +2}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 
\trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth2\trwWidth4993\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3971\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8003\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1029\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx10081\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Change area to cylinder (10-ft. radius,  30 ft. high)}{
\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 +2}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth2\trwWidth4993\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3971\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8003
\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1029\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx10081\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 
Change area to 40-ft. cone}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 +2}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth2\trwWidth4993\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3971\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8003\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1029\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx10081\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Change area to four 10-ft. cubes}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell 
}\pard \qr \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 +2}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth2\trwWidth4993\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3971\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8003
\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1029\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx10081\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 
Change area to 20-ft. radius}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 +2}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth2\trwWidth4993\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3971\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8003\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1029\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx10081\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Change area to target}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 +4}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth2\trwWidth4993\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3971\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8003
\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1029\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx10081\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Ch
ange area to touch or ray (close range)}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 +4}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd 
\trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth2\trwWidth4993\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3971\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8003\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1029\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx10081\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Increase area by 100%}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 +4}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth2\trwWidth4993\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3971\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8003
\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1029\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx10081\row }\pard\plain 
\s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Saving Throw}{\b\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard\plain \qr \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 
\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth2\trwWidth4993\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3971\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8003
\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1029\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx10081\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 
Increase spell\rquote s saving throw DC by +1}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 +2}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd 
\trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth2\trwWidth4993\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3971\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8003\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1029\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx10081\row }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0 
\i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Spell Resistance}{\b\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard\plain \qr \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\dbch\af29 
\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth2\trwWidth4993\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3971\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8003\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1029\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx10081\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Gain +1 bonus on caster level check to overcome target\rquote 
s spell resistance}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 +2}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth2\trwWidth4993\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3971\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 
\cellx8003\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1029\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx10081\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20 Gain +1 on caster level check to beat foe\rquote s dispel effect}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 +2}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth2\trwWidth4993\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3971\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8003\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1029\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx10081\row }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0 
\i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Other}{\b\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard\plain \qr \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth2\trwWidth4993\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3971\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8003\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1029\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx10081\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Recorded onto stone tablet}{\fs20\super 5}{\fs20\dbch\af29 
\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 x2}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth2\trwWidth4993\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3971\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8003
\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1029\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx10081\row }\trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth2\trwWidth4993\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3971\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8003\clvertalc\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1029\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx10081\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Increase damage die by one step (d20 maximum)}{
\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 +10}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth2\trwWidth4993\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3971\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8003\clvertalc\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1029\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx10081\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\cf0 
Unless stated otherwise, the same factor can be applied more than once. 
\par 1 Each contingent spell in use counts as a slot used from the caster\rquote s daily epic spell slots. 
\par 2 Seeds that already have an instantaneous or permanent duration cannot be increased. 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\cf2\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cf0 
3 When changing a targeted or area seed to a touch or ranged attack, the seed no longer requires a save if it deals damage, instead re
quiring a successful attack roll. Seeds with a nondamaging effect still allow the target a save. Area spells changed to touch or ranged attacks now affect only the creature successfully attacked. 
\par 4 When changing a touch or ranged attack seed to a targeted
 seed, the seed no longer requires an attack roll if it deals damage, instead requiring a saving throw from the target. On a failed saving throw, the target takes half damage. Area seeds changed to targeted seeds now only affect the target. The GM determi
nes the most appropriate kind of saving throw for the epic spell. 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 
5 Epic spells may only be inscribed on stone tablets or other substances of equal or greater hardness. Once a spell is so inscribed, another epic spellcaster can learn it without going throu
gh the process of development. Once an inscribed epic spell is learned by another epic spellcaster in this fashion, the tablet upon which it is inscribed is destroyed and cannot be mended. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Table: Epic Spell Mitigating Factors 
\par }\trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth2\trwWidth4231\trautofit1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3691\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx6300\clvertalc\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1309\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8540\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\dbch\af29 
\cell }\pard\plain \s4\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0 \b\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Spellcraft DC Modifier}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth2\trwWidth4231\trautofit1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3691\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx6300\clvertalc\clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1309\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8540\row }\trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth2\trwWidth4231\trautofit1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3691\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 
\cellx6300\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1309\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8540\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Ba
cklash 1d6 points of damage (max d6 = caster\rquote s HD x2)}{\b\fs20\super 1}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \endash 1}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth2\trwWidth4231\trautofit1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3691\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx6300\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1309\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8540\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Burn 100 XP during casting (max 20,000 XP)}{\fs20\dbch\af29 
\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \endash 1}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth2\trwWidth4231\trautofit1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3691\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 
\cellx6300\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1309\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8540\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20 Increase casting time by 1 minute (max 10 minutes)}{\b\fs20\super 2}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \endash 2}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth2\trwWidth4231\trautofit1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3691\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx6300\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1309\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8540\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Increase casting time by 1 day (max 100 days)}{\b\fs20\super 2}
{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \endash 2}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth2\trwWidth4231\trautofit1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3691\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 
\cellx6300\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1309\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8540\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20 Change from target, touch, or area to personal}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \endash 2}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth2\trwWidth4231\trautofit1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3691\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx6300\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1309\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8540\row }\trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth2\trwWidth4231\trautofit1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3691\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 
\cellx6300\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1309\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8540\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 
Additional participants (ritual)}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 see Table: Additional Participants in Rituals}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth2\trwWidth4231\trautofit1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3691\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx6300\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1309\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8540\row }\trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth2\trwWidth4231\trautofit1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3691\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx6300\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1309\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8540\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Decrease damage die by one step (d4 minimum)}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell 
}\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \endash 5}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth2\trwWidth4231\trautofit1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth3691\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx6300\clvertalc\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1309\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx8540\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\cf0 
Note: Mitigating factors are always applied after all epic spell factors (see above) are accounted for in the development of an epic spell.
\par 1 The caster cannot somehow avoid or make him or her self immune to backlash damage. For spells with durations longer than instantaneous, the backlash damage is per round. If backlash damage kills a caster, no spell or method exists th
at will return life to the caster\rquote s body without costing the caster a level\emdash not even }{\i\fs20\cf0 wish, true resurrection, miracle, }{\fs20\cf0 or epic spells that return life to the deceased}{\i\fs20\cf0 . }{\fs20\cf0 
Spells that normally penalize the recipient one level when they return him or her to life penalize a caster killed by backlash two levels. 
\par 2 When increasing the casting time of a spell in order to reduce the Spellcraft DC, a character must first \'93use up\'94 the maximum of 10 minutes (for a total DC modifier of \endash 20). After that, a character can 
continue to add days to the casting time, with a further modifier of \endash 2 per day, up to the maximum of 100 days.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Additional Participants:}{\fs20\cf0  Epic spells can be developed that specifically require additional participants. These spells are called rituals. An ep
ic spell developed as a ritual requires a specific number of additional participants, who each must use up one spell slot of a specified level for the day. During an epic spell\rquote s development, the spell\rquote 
s creator determines the number of additional particip
ants and the level of the spell slots to be contributed. If the exact number of spellcasters does not partake in the casting, or if the casters do not each contribute the proper spell slot, the epic spell automatically fails. To participate, each particip
a
nt readies an action to contribute his or her raw spell energy when the primary caster begins the epic spell. Additional participants in a ritual spell reduce the Spellcraft DC, as shown on Table: Additional Participants in Rituals. Each additional partic
ipant may only contribute one spell slot. It doesn\rquote 
t matter whether the additional participants are arcane or divine spellcasters; only the level of the spell slot contributed matters. A contributed spell slot is treated as if normally cast. A wizard may co
ntribute either a prepared, uncast spell slot, or an open, unprepared slot. The Spellcraft DC adjustments for each additional participant stack. 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Special: }{\fs20\cf0 A ritual epic spell that takes longer than 1 standard action to cast requires all extra participants 
to stand as if casting for the same amount of time. If an extra participant is attacked while contributing a spell slot, the participant must make a Concentration check as if casting a spell of the same level as the slot contributed. If the attack disrupt
s
 the participant in the ritual, the epic spell is not necessarily ruined. However, the Spellcraft DC reduction that would have been provided by that additional participant cannot be applied to the final Spellcraft DC of the epic spell. Thus the ritual epi
c spell will be harder for the primary spellcaster to cast. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Table: Additional Participants in Rituals
\par }\trowd \trrh510\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1455\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1440
\clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx2700\clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4140\clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 
\cellx5400\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Spell Slot Level Contributed}{\b\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }{\b\fs20 Spellcraft DC Reduction }{\b\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }{
\b\fs20 Spell Slot Level Contributed}{\b\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }{\b\fs20 Spellcraft DC Reduction }{\b\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh510\trleft-15\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1455\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1440\clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx2700\clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 
\cellx4140\clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5400\row }\trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1455\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1440\clvertalb\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx2700\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4140\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5400\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 1st}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }{\fs20 \endash 1 }{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell 
}{\fs20 6th}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }{\fs20 \endash 11 }{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1455\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1440\clvertalb\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx2700\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4140\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5400\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 2nd}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }{\fs20 \endash 3 }{\fs20\dbch\af29 
\cell }{\fs20 7th}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }{\fs20 \endash 13 }{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1455\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1440\clvertalb\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx2700\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4140\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5400\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 3rd}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }{\fs20 \endash 5 }{\fs20\dbch\af29 
\cell }{\fs20 8th}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }{\fs20 \endash 15 }{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1455\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1440\clvertalb\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx2700\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4140\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5400\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 4th}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }{\fs20 \endash 7}{\fs20\dbch\af29 
\cell }{\fs20 9th}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }{\fs20 \endash 17 }{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1455\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1440\clvertalb\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx2700\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4140\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5400\row }\trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1455\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1440\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx2700\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4140\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5400\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 5th}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }{\fs20 \endash 9 }{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell 
}{\fs20 Epic slot}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }{\fs20 \endash 19 }{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1455\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1440\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx2700\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4140\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5400\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
\par }{\b0\fs36 SEED DESCRIPTIONS 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Each seed description hereafter follows the same format used for 0- to 9th-level spells}{\i\fs20\cf0 . }{\fs20\cf0 
An additional line, Spellcraft DC, indicates the base DC of the Spellcraft check required to cast an epic spell with this seed. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 SEED:AFFLICT 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Enchantment (Compulsion) [Fear, Mind-Affecting] 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  14 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  300 ft. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One living creature 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  20 minutes 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Will negates 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes 
\par Afflicts the target with a \endash 2 morale penalty on attack rolls, checks, and saving throws. For each additional \endash 1 penalty assessed on either the target\rquote s attack rolls, checks, or saving throws, increase the Spellcraft DC by +2. 
A character may also develop a spell with this seed that afflicts the target with a \endash 1 penalty on caster level checks, a \endash 1 penalty to an ability score, a \endash 1 penalty to spell resistance, or a \endash 
1 penalty to some other aspect of the target. For each additional \endash 1 penalty assessed in one of the above categories, increase the Spell-craft DC by +4. This seed can afflict a character\rquote 
s ability scores to the point where they reach 0, except for Constitution where 1 is the minimum. If a factor is applied to increase
 the duration of this seed, ability score penalties instead become temporary ability damage. If a factor is applied to make the duration permanent, any ability score penalties become permanent ability drain. Finally, by increasing the Spellcraft DC by +2,
 one of the target\rquote s senses can be afflicted: sight, smell, hearing, taste, touch, or a special sense the target possesses. If the target fails its saving throw, the sense selected doesn\rquote t function for the spell\rquote 
s duration, with all attendant penalties that apply for losing the specified sense. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 SEED:ANIMATE 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Transmutation 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  25 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  300 ft. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Object or 20 cu. ft. of matter 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  20 rounds 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No 
\par This s
eed can imbue inanimate objects with mobility and a semblance of life (not actual life). The animated object attacks whomever or whatever the caster initially designates. The animated object can be of any nonmagical material. The caster can also animate p
a
rt of a larger mass of raw matter, such as a volume of water in the ocean, part of a stony wall, or the earth itself, as long as the volume of material does not exceed 20 cubic feet. For each additional 10 cubic feet of matter animated, increase the Spell
c
raft DC by +1, up to 1,000 cubic feet. For each additional 100 cubic feet of matter animated after the first 1,000 cubic feet, increase the spellcraft DC by +1. For each additional Hit Die granted to an animated object of a given size, increase the Spellc
raft DC by +2. To animate attended objects (objects carried or worn by another creature), increase the Spellcraft DC by +10. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 SEED:ANIMATE DEAD 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Necromancy [Evil] 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  23 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One or more corpses touched 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No 
\par The caster can turn the bones or bodies of dead creatures into undead that follow his or her spoken commands. The undead can follow the caster, or they can remain in an 
area and attack any creature (or a specific type of creature) entering the place. The undead remain animated until they are destroyed. (A destroyed undead can\rquote t be animated again.) Intelligent undead can follow more sophisticated commands. The }{
\i\fs20\cf0 animate dead }{\fs20\cf0 seed allows a character to create 20 HD of undead. For each additional 1 HD of undead created, increase the Spellcraft DC by +1. The undead created remain under the caster\rquote 
s control indefinitely. A caster can naturally control 1 HD per caster level of und
ead creatures he or she has personally created, regardless of the method used. If the caster exceeds this number, newly created creatures fall under his or her control, and excess undead from previous castings become uncontrolled (the caster chooses which
 
creatures are released). If the caster is a cleric, any undead he or she commands through his or her ability to command or rebuke undead do not count toward the limit. For each additional 2 HD of undead to be controlled, increase the Spellcraft DC by +1. 
Only undead in excess of 20 HD created with this seed can be controlled using this DC adjustment. To both create and control more than 20 HD of undead, increase the Spellcraft DC by +3 per additional 2 HD of undead. 
\par Type of Undead: All types of undead can be created with the }{\i\fs20\cf0 animate dead }{\fs20\cf0 
seed, although creating more powerful undead increases the Spellcraft DC of the epic spell, according to the table below. The GM must set the Spellcraft DC for undead not included on the table, using similar undead as a basis for comparison. 
\par }\trowd \trrh417\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalc\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1095\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1080\clvertalc\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1643\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx2723\clvertalc\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1057\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx3780\clvertalc\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5220\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20 Undead}{\b\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard\plain 
\s8\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel7\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Spellcraft DC Modifier}{\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 
\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Undead}{\b\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }{\b\fs20 Spellcraft DC Modifier}{\b\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd 
\trrh417\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalc\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1095\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 
\cellx1080\clvertalc\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1643\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx2723\clvertalc\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1057\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx3780\clvertalc\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5220\row }\trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA3\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1095\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1080\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1643\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx2723\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1057\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx3780\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5220\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Skeleton}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }{\fs20 \endash 12}{\fs20\dbch\af29 
\cell }{\fs20 Wraith}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }{\fs20 \endash 2}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA3\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1095\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 
\cellx1080\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1643\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx2723\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1057\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx3780\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5220\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Zombie}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }{\fs20 \endash 12}{
\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }{\fs20 Mummy}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }{\fs20 +0}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA3\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1095\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 
\cellx1080\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1643\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx2723\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1057\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx3780\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5220\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Ghoul}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }{\fs20 \endash 10}{
\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }{\fs20 Spectre}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }{\fs20 +2}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA3\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1095\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 
\cellx1080\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1643\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx2723\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1057\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx3780\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5220\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Shadow}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }{\fs20 \endash 8}{
\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }{\fs20 Morhg}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }{\fs20 +4}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA3\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1095\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 
\cellx1080\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1643\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx2723\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1057\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx3780\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5220\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Ghast}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }{\fs20 \endash 6}{
\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }{\fs20 Vampire}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }{\fs20 +6}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA3\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1095\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 
\cellx1080\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1643\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx2723\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1057\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx3780\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5220\row }\trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA3\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1095\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1080\clvertalc\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1643\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx2723\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1057\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx3780\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5220\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Wight}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }{\fs20 \endash 4}{\fs20\dbch\af29 
\cell }{\fs20 Ghost}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }{\fs20 +8}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA3\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1095\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1080\clvertalc\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1643\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx2723\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1057\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx3780\clvertalc\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5220\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 SEED: ARMOR 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Creation) [Force] 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  14 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Creature touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  24 hours (D) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Will negates (harmless) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (harmless) 
\par This seed grants a creature additional armor, providing a +4 bonus to Armor Class. The bonus is either an armor bonus or a natural armor bonus, whichever the caster selects. Unlike mundane armor, the }{\i\fs20\cf0 armor }{\fs20\cf0 
seed provides an intangible protection that entails no armor check penalty, arcane spell failure chance, or speed reduction. Incorporeal creatures can\rquote t bypass the }{\i\fs20\cf0 armor }{\fs20\cf0 
seed the way they can ignore normal armor. For each additional point of Armor Class bonus, increase the Spellcraft DC by +2. The caster can also grant a creature a +1 bonus to Armor Class using a d
ifferent bonus type, such as deflection, divine, or insight. For each additional point of bonus to Armor Class of one of these types, increase the Spellcraft DC by +10. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 SEED: BANISH 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Abjuration 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  27 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  75 ft. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One or more extraplanar creatures, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Will negates 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes 
\par This seed forces extraplanar creatures out of the caster\rquote s home plane. Th
e caster can banish up to 14 HD of extraplanar creatures. For each additional 2 HD of extraplanar creatures banished, increase the Spellcraft DC by +1. To specify a type or sub-type of creature other than outsider to be banished, increase the Spellcraft D
C by +20. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 SEED: COMPEL 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting] 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  19 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, M 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  75 ft. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One living creature 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  20 hours or until completed 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Will negates 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes 
\par This seed compels a target to follow a course of activity. At the basic level of effect, a spell using the }{\i\fs20\cf0 compel }{\fs20\cf0 
seed must be worded in such a manner as to make the activity sound reasonable. Asking the creature to do an obviously harmful act autom
atically negates the effect (unless the Spellcraft DC has been increased to avoid this limitation; see below). To compel a creature to follow an outright unreasonable course of action, increase the Spellcraft DC by +10. The compelled course of activity ca
n
 continue for the entire duration. If the compelled activity can be completed in a shorter time, the spell ends when the subject finishes what he or she was asked to do. The caster can instead specify conditions that will trigger a special activity during
 the duration. If the condition is not met before the spell using this seed expires, the activity is not performed. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 SEED: CONCEAL 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Illusion (Glamer) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  17 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Personal or touch 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  You or a creature or object of up to 2,000 lb. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  200 minutes or until expended (D) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None or Will negates (harmless, object) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No or Yes (harmless, object) 
\par This seed can conceal a creature or object touched from sight, even from darkvision. If the subject is a creature carrying gear, the gear vanishes too, rendering the creature invisible. A spell using the }{\i\fs20\cf0 conceal }{\fs20\cf0 
seed ends if the subject attacks any creature. Actions directed at unattended objects do not break the spell, and 
causing harm indirectly is not an attack. To create invisibility that lasts regardless of the actions of the subject, increase the Spellcraft DC by +4. Alternatively, this seed can conceal the exact location of the subject so that it appears to be about 2
 
feet away from its true location; this increases the Spellcraft DC by +2. The subject benefits from a 50% miss chance as if it had total concealment. However, unlike actual total concealment, this displacement effect does not prevent enemies from targetin
g him or her normally. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 conceal }{\fs20\cf0 seed can also be used to block divination spells, spell-like effects, and epic spells developed using the }{\i\fs20\cf0 reveal }{\fs20\cf0 
seed; this increases the Spellcraft DC by +6. In all cases where divination magic of any level, including epic level, is employed against the subject of a spell using the }{\i\fs20\cf0 conceal }{\fs20\cf0 
seed for this purpose, an opposed caster level check determines which spell works. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 SEED: CONJURE 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Creation) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  21 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  0 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  Unattended, nonmagical object of nonliving matter up to 20 cu. ft. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  8 hours 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No 
\par This seed creates a nonmagical, unattended object of nonliving matter of up to 20 cubic feet in volume. The
 caster must succeed at an appropriate skill check to make a complex item. The seed can create matter ranging in hardness and rarity from vegetable matter all the way up to mithral and even adamantine. Simple objects have a natural duration of 24 hours. F
or each additional cubic foot of matter created, increase the Spellcraft DC by +2. Attempting to use any created object as a material component or a resource during epic spell development causes the spell to fail and the object to disappear. 
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 conjure }{\fs20\cf0 seed can be used in conjunction with the }{\i\fs20\cf0 life }{\fs20\cf0 and }{\i\fs20\cf0 fortify }{\fs20\cf0 
seeds for an epic spell that creates an entirely new creature, if made permanent. To give a creature spell-like abilities, apply other epic seeds to the epic spell that replicate the desired ability. 
To give the creature a supernatural or extraordinary ability rather than a spell-like ability, double the cost of the relevant seed. Remember that two doublings equals a tripling, and so forth. To give a creature Hit Dice, use the }{\i\fs20\cf0 fortify }{
\fs20\cf0 seed. Each 5 hit points granted to the creature gives it an additional 1 HD. Once successfully created, the new creature will breed true. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 SEED: CONTACT 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Divination 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  23 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  See text 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One creature 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  200 minutes 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No 
\par This seed forges a telepathic bond with a particular creature with which the caster is familiar (or one that the caster can currently see directly or through magical means) and can converse back an
d forth. The subject recognizes the caster if it knows him or her. It can answer in like manner immediately, though it does not have to. The caster can forge a communal bond among more than two creatures. For each additional creature contacted, increase t
h
e Spellcraft DC by +1. The bond can be established only among willing subjects, which therefore receive no saving throw or spell resistance. For telepathic communication through the bond regardless of language, increase the Spellcraft DC by +4. No special
 influence is established as a result of the bond, only the power to communicate at a distance. 
\par At the base Spellcraft DC of 20, a caster can also use the }{\i\fs20\cf0 contact }{\fs20\cf0 seed to imbue an object (or creature) with a message he or she prepares that appears as written text for the spell\rquote 
s duration or is spoken aloud in a language the caster knows. The spoken message can be of any length, but the length of written text is limited to what can be contained (as text of a readable size) on the surface of the target. The m
essage is delivered when specific conditions are fulfilled according to the caster\rquote s desire when the spell is cast.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 SEED: DELUDE 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Illusion (Figment) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  14 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  12,000 ft. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  Visual figment that can extend for up to twenty 30-ft. cubes (S) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Concentration plus 20 hours 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Will disbelief (if interacted with) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No 
\par A spell developed with the }{\i\fs20\cf0 delude }{\fs20\cf0 seed creates the visual illusion of an object, creature, or f
orce, as visualized by the caster. The caster can move the image within the limits of the size of the effect by concentrating (the image is otherwise stationary). The image disappears when struck by an opponent unless the caster causes the illusion to rea
ct appropriately. For an illusion that includes audible, olfactory, tactile, taste, and thermal aspects, increase the Spellcraft DC by +2 per extra aspect. Even realistic tactile and thermal illusions can\rquote 
t deal damage, however. For each additional image to
 be created, increase the Spellcraft DC by +1. For an illusion that follows a script determined by the caster, increase the Spellcraft DC by +9. The figment follows the script without the caster having to concentrate on it. The illusion can include intell
i
gible speech if desired. For an illusion that makes any area appear to be something other than it is, increase the Spellcraft DC by +4. Additional components, such as sounds, can be added as noted above. Concealing creatures requires additional spell deve
lopment using this or other seeds. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 SEED: DESTROY 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Transmutation 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  29 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  12,000 ft. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One creature, or up to a 10-foot cube of nonliving matter 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Fortitude half 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes 
\par This seed deals 20d6 points of damage to the target. The damage is of no particular type or energy. For each additional 1d6 points of damage dealt, increase the Spellcraft DC by +2. If the target is reduced to \endash 10 hit poi
nts or less (or a construct, object, or undead is reduced to 0 hit points), it is utterly destroyed as if disintegrated, leaving behind only a trace of fine dust. Up to a 10-foot cube of nonliving matter is affected, so a spell using the }{\i\fs20\cf0 
destroy }{\fs20\cf0 seed destroys only part of any very large object or structure targeted. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 destroy }{\fs20\cf0 seed affects even magical matter, energy fields, and force effects that are normally only affected by the }{\i\fs20\cf0 
disintegrate }{\fs20\cf0 spell}{\i\fs20\cf0 . }{\fs20\cf0 Such effects are automatically destroyed. Epic spells using the }{\i\fs20\cf0 ward }{\fs20\cf0 
seed may also be destroyed, though the caster must succeed at an opposed caster level check against the other spellcaster to bring down a }{\i\fs20\cf0 ward }{\fs20\cf0 spell. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 SEED: DISPEL 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Abjuration 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  19 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  300 ft. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One creature, object, or spell 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No 
\par This seed can end ongoing spells that have been cast on a creature or object, temporarily suppress the magical abilities of a magic item,
 or end ongoing spells (or at least their effects) within an area. A dispelled spell ends as if its duration had expired. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel }{\fs20\cf0 seed can defeat all spells, even those not normally subject to }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel magi}{
\fs20\cf0 c. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel }{\fs20\cf0 seed can dispel (but not counter) t
he ongoing effects of supernatural abilities as well as spells, and it affects spell-like effects just as it affects spells. One creature, object, or spell is the target of the }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel }{\fs20\cf0 
seed. The caster makes a dispel check against the spell or against each ongoing spell currently in effect on the object or creature. A dispel check is 1d20 + 10 against a DC of 11 + the target spell\rquote 
s caster level. For each additional +1 on the dispel check, increase the Spellcraft DC by +1. If targeting an object or creature 
that is the effect of an ongoing spell, make a dispel check to end the spell that affects the object or creature. If the object targeted is a magic item, make a dispel check against the item\rquote s caster level. If succeessful, all the item\rquote 
s magical properties are suppressed for 1d4 rounds, after which the item recovers on its own. A suppressed item becomes nonmagical for the duration of the effect. An interdimensional interface is temporarily closed. A magic item\rquote 
s physical properties are unchanged. Any creature, object, or spell is potentially subject to the }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel }{\fs20\cf0 
seed, even the spells of gods and the abilities of artifacts. A character automatically succeeds on the dispel check against any spell that he or she cast him or her self. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 SEED: ENERGY 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Acid, Fire, Electricity, Cold, or Sonic] 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  19 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  300 ft. or touched creature or object of 2,000 lb. or less 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  A bolt 5 ft. wide to 300 ft. long; or a 10-ft.-radius emanation; or a wall whose area is up to one 200-ft. square; or a sphere or hemi-sphere with a radius of up to 20 ft. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous or 20 hours (see text)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Reflex half 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes 
\par This seed uses whichever one of five energy types the caster choo
ses: acid, cold, electricity, fire, or sonic. The caster can cast the energy forth as a bolt, imbue an object with the energy, or create a freestanding manifestation of the energy. If the spell developed using the }{\i\fs20\cf0 energy }{\fs20\cf0 
seed releases a bolt, that bolt instantaneously deals 10d6 points of damage of the appropriate energy type, and all in the bolt\rquote 
s area must make a Reflex save for half damage. For each additional 1d6 points of damage dealt, increase the Spellcraft DC by +2. The bolt begins at the caster\rquote s f
ingertips. To imbue another creature with the ability to use an energy bolt as a spell-like ability at its option or when a particular condition is met, increase the Spellcraft DC by +25. The caster can also cause a creature or object to emanate the speci
f
ic energy type out to a radius of 10 feet for 20 hours. The emanated energy deals 2d6 points of energy damage per round against unprotected creatures (the target creature is susceptible if not separately warded or otherwise resistant to the energy). For e
a
ch additional 1d6 points of damage emanated, increase the Spellcraft DC by +2. The caster may also create a wall, half-circle, circle, dome, or sphere of the desired energy that emanates the energy for up to 20 hours. One side of the wall, selected by the
 
caster, sends forth waves of energy, dealing 2d4 points of energy damage to creatures within 10 feet and 1d4 points of energy damage to those past 10 feet but within 20 feet. The wall deals this damage when it appears and in each round that a creature ent
ers or remains in the area. In addition, the wall deals 2d6+20 points of energy damage to any creature passing through it. The wall deals double damage to undead creatures. For each additional 1d4 points of damage, increase the Spellcraft DC by +2. 

\par The caster can also use the }{\i\fs20\cf0 energy }{\fs20\cf0 seed to create a spell that carefully releases and balances the emanation of cold, electricity, and fire, creating specific weather effects for a period of 20 hours. Using the }{\i\fs20\cf0 
energy }{\fs20\cf0 seed this way has a base Spellcraft DC of 25. The area extends to a two-mile-radius centered on the caster. Once the spell is cast, the weather takes 10 minutes to manifest. Ordinarily, a caster can\rquote 
t directly target a creature or object, though indirect effects are possible. This seed can create cold snaps, heat waves, thunderstorms, fogs, blizzards\emdash 
even a tornado that moves randomly in the affected area. Creating targeted damaging effects requires an additional use of the }{\i\fs20\cf0 energy }{\fs20\cf0 seed. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 SEED: FORESEE 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Divination 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  17 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Personal 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  You 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous or concentration (see text) 
\par The caster can foretell the immediate future, or gain information about specific questions. He or she is 90% likely to receive a meaningful reading 
of the future of the next 30 minutes. If successful, the caster knows if a particular action will bring good results, bad results, or no result. For each additional 30 minutes into the future, multiply the Spellcraft DC by x2. For better results, the cast
e
r can pose up to ten specific questions (one per round while he or she concentrates) to unknown powers of other planes, but the base Spellcraft DC for such an attempt is 23.  The answers return in a language the caster understands, but use only one-word r
eplies: \'93yes,\'94 \'93no,\'94 \'93maybe,\'94 \'93never,\'94 \'93irrelevant,\'94
 or some other one-word answer. Unlike 0- to 9th-level spells of similar type, all questions answered are 90% likely to be answered truthfully. However, a specific spell using the }{\i\fs20\cf0 foresee }{\fs20\cf0 seed can only be 
cast once every five weeks. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 foresee }{\fs20\cf0 seed is also useful for epic spells requiring specific information before functioning, such as spells using the }{\i\fs20\cf0 reveal }{\fs20\cf0 and }{\i\fs20\cf0 transport }{\fs20\cf0 
seeds. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 foresee }{\fs20\cf0 seed can also be used to gain one basic piece of information about a living target: level, class, alignment, or some special ability (or one of an object\rquote 
s magical abilities, if any). For each additional piece of information revealed, increase the Spellcraft DC by +2. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 SEED: FORTIFY 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Transmutation 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  17 (see text) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Creature touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  20 hours; permanent for age adjustment 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Will negates (harmless) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (harmless) 
\par Spells using the }{\i\fs20\cf0 fortify }{\fs20\cf0 seed grant a +1 enhancement bonus to whichever one of the following the caster chooses: 
\par -Any one ability score. 
\par -Any one kind of saving throw. 
\par -Spell resistance. 
\par -Natural armor. 
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 fortify }{\fs20\cf0 seed can also grant energy resistance 1 for one energy type or 1 temporary hit point. For each additional +1 bonus, point of energy resistance, or hit point, increase the Spellcraft DC by +2. 
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 fortify }{\fs20\cf0 seed has a base Spellcraft DC of 23 if it grants a +1 bonus of a type other than enhancement. For each additional +1 bonus of a 
type other than enhancement, increase the Spellcraft DC by +6. If the caster applies a factor to make the duration permanent, the bonus must be an inherent bonus, and the maximum inherent bonus allowed is +5. 
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 fortify }{\fs20\cf0 seed has a base Spellcraft DC of 27 if it grants a creature a +1 bonus to an ability score or other statistic it does not possess. For each additional +1 bonus, increase the Spellcraft DC by +4. If a spell with the }{
\i\fs20\cf0 fortify }{\fs20\cf0 seed grants an inanimate object an ability score it would not normally possess (such as Intelligence), the spell must also incorporate the }{\i\fs20\cf0 life }{\fs20\cf0 seed. 
\par Granting spell resistance to a creature that doesn\rquote t already have it is a special case; the base Spellcraft DC of 27 grants spell resistance 25, and each additional point of spell resistance increases the Spellcraft DC by +4 (each \endash 
1 to spell resistance reduces the Spellcraft DC by \endash 2).
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 fortify }{\fs20\cf0 seed can also grant damage reduction 1/magic. For each additional point of damage reduction, increase the Spellcraft DC by +2. To increase the damage reduction value to epic, increase the Spellcraft DC by +15.
\par A special use of the }{\i\fs20\cf0 fortify }{\fs20\cf0 seed grants the target a permanent +1 year to its current age category. For each additional +1 year added to the creature\rquote s current age category,
 increase the Spellcraft DC by +2. Incremental adjustments to a creature\rquote s maximum age do not stack; they overlap. When a spell increases a creature\rquote s current age category, all higher age categories are also adjusted accordingly.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 SEED: HEAL 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f28\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Conjuration (Healing) 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  25 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, DF 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Creature touched 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (harmless; see text) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (harmless) 
\par Spells developed with the }{\i\fs20\cf0 heal }{\fs20\cf0 seed channe
l positive energy into a creature to wipe away disease and injury. Such a spell completely cures all diseases, blindness, deafness, hit point damage, and temporary ability damage. To restore permanently drained ability score points, increase the Spellcraf
t DC by +6. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 heal }{\fs20\cf0 seed neutralizes poisons in the subject\rquote 
s system so that no additional damage or effects are suffered. It offsets feeblemindedness and cures mental disorders caused by spells or injury to the brain. It dispels all magical effects penalizing the character\rquote 
s abilities, including effects caused by spells, even epic spells developed with the }{\i\fs20\cf0 afflict }{\fs20\cf0 
seed. Only a single application of the spell is needed to simultaneously achieve all these effects. This seed does not restore levels or Constit
ution points lost due to death. To dispel all negative levels afflicting the target, increase the Spellcraft DC by +2. This reverses level drains by a force or creature. The drained levels are restored only if the creature lost the levels within the last 
20 weeks. For each additional week since the levels were drained, increase the Spellcraft DC by +2. 
\par Against undead, the influx of positive energy causes the loss of all but 1d4 hit points if the undead fails a Fortitude saving throw. 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\cf2\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cf0 An epic caster with 2
4 ranks in Knowledge (arcana), Knowledge (nature), or Knowledge (religion) can cast a spell developed with a special version of the heal seed that flushes negative energy into the subject, healing undead completely but causing the loss of all but 1d4 hit 
p
oints in living creatures if they fail a Fortitude saving throw. Alternatively, a living target that fails its Fortitude saving throw could gain four negative levels for the next 8 hours. For each additional negative level bestowed, increase the Spellcraf
t
 DC by +4, and for each extra hour the negative levels persist, increase the Spellcraft DC by +2. If the subject has at least as many negative levels as Hit Dice, it dies. If the subject survives and the negative levels persist for 24 hours or longer, the
 subject must make another Fortitude saving throw, or the negative levels are converted to actual level loss.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 SEED: LIFE 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Healing) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  27 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, DF 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Dead creature touched 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None (see text) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (harmless) 
\par A spell developed with the }{\i\fs20\cf0 life }{\fs20\cf0 seed will restore life and complete vigor to any deceased creature. The condition of the remains is not a factor. So long as some small portion of the creature\rquote 
s body still exists, it can be returned to life, but the portion receiving the spell must have been part of the creature\rquote s body at the time of death. (The remains of a creature hit by a }{\i\fs20\cf0 disintegrate }{\fs20\cf0 
spell count as a small portion o
f its body.) The creature can have been dead for no longer than two hundred years. For each additional ten years, increase the Spellcraft DC by +1. The creature is immediately restored to full hit points, vigor, and health, with no loss of prepared spells
. However, the subject loses one level (or 1 point of Constitution if the subject was 1st level). The life seed cannot revive someone who has died of old age. 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f28\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 An epic caster with 24 ranks in Knowledge (arcana), Knowledge (nature), or Knowledge (religion) c
an cast a spell developed with a special version of the life seed that gives actual life to normally inanimate objects. The caster can give inanimate plants and animals a soul, personality, and humanlike sentience. To succeed, the caster must make a Will 
save (DC 10 + the target\rquote s Hit Dice, or the Hit Dice a plant will have once it comes to life).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 
The newly living object, intelligent animal, or sentient plant is friendly toward the caster. An object or plant has characteristics as if it were an animated obj
ect, except that its Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores are all 3d6. Animated objects and plants gain the ability to move their limbs, projections, roots, carved legs and arms, or other appendages, and have senses similar to a human\rquote 
s. A newly intelligent animal gets 3d6 Intelligence, +1d3 Charisma, and +2 HD. Objects, animals, and plants speak one language that the caster knows, plus one additional language that he or she knows per point of Intelligence bonus (if any). 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 SEED: REFLECT 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Abjuration 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  27 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Personal 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  You 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Until expended or 12 hours 
\par Attacks targeted against the caster rebound on the original attacker. Each use of the }{\i\fs20\cf0 reflect }{\fs20\cf0 seed in an epic spell is effective
 against one type of attack only: spells (and spell-like effects), ranged attacks, or melee attacks. To reflect an area spell, where the caster is not the target but are caught in the vicinity, increase the Spellcraft DC by +20. A single successful use of
 }{\i\fs20\cf0 reflect }{\fs20\cf0 expends its protection. Spells developed with the }{\i\fs20\cf0 reflect }{\fs20\cf0 
seed against spells and spell-like effects return all spell effects of up to 1st level. For each additional level of spells to be reflected, increase the Spellcraft DC by +20. Epic spells are treated as 10th-level spells for this purpose. 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f28\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 
The desired effect is automatically reflected if the spell in question is 9th level or lower. An opposed caster level check is required when the reflect seed is used against another epic spell. If the enemy
 spellcaster gets his or her spell through by winning the caster level check, the epic spell using the reflect seed is not expended, just momentarily suppressed.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 If the }{\i\fs20\cf0 reflect }{\fs20\cf0 seed is used against a melee attack or ranged attack, five such attacks are aut
omatically reflected back on the original attacker. For each additional attack reflected, increase the Spellcraft DC by +4. The reflected attack rebounds on the attacker using the same attack roll. Once the allotted attacks are reflected, the spell using 
the }{\i\fs20\cf0 reflect }{\fs20\cf0 seed is expended.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 SEED: REVEAL 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Divination 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  19 (see text) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  See text 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  Magical sensor 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  20 minutes (D) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No 
\par The caster of this seed can see some distant location or hear the sounds at some distant location almost as if he or she was there. To both hear and see, increase the Spellcraft DC by +2. Distance is not a factor, but the locale must be known\emdash 
a place familiar to the caster o
r an obvious one. The spell creates an invisible sensor that can be dispelled. Lead sheeting or magical protection blocks the spell, and the caster senses that the spell is so blocked. If the caster prefers to create a mobile sensor (speed 30 feet) that h
e or she controls, increase the Spellcraft DC by +2. To use the }{\i\fs20\cf0 reveal }{\fs20\cf0 
seed to reach one specific different plane of existence, increase the Spellcraft DC by +8. To allow magically enhanced senses to work through a spell built with the }{\i\fs20\cf0 reveal }{\fs20\cf0 seed, increase
 the Spellcraft DC by +4. To cast any spell from the sensor whose range is touch or greater, increase the Spellcraft DC by +6; however, the caster must maintain line of effect to the sensor at all times. If the line of effect is obstructed, the spell ends
. To free the caster of the line of effect restriction for casting spells through the sensor, multiply the Spellcraft DC by x10. 
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 reveal }{\fs20\cf0 seed has a base Spellcraft DC of 25 if used to pierce illusions and see things as they really are. The caster can se
e through normal and magical darkness, notice secret doors hidden by magic, see the exact locations of creatures or objects under }{\i\fs20\cf0 blur }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 displacement }{\fs20\cf0 
effects, see invisible creatures or objects normally, see through illusions, see onto the Ethereal Plane (but not into extradimensional spaces), and see the true form of polymorphed, changed, or transmuted things. The range of such sight is 120 feet. 

\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 reveal }{\fs20\cf0 seed can also be used to develop spells that will do any one of the following: duplicate the }{\i\fs20\cf0 read magic }{\fs20\cf0 
spell, comprehend the written and verbal language of another, or speak in the written or verbal language of another. To both comprehend and speak a language, increase the Spellcraft DC by +4. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 SEED: SLAY 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Necromancy [Death] 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  25 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  300 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One living creature 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Fortitude partial or half (see text) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes 
\par A spell developed using the }{\i\fs20\cf0 slay }{\fs20\cf0 seed snuffs out the life force of a living creature, killing it instantly. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 slay }{\fs20\cf0 
seed kills a creature of up to 80 HD. The subject is entitled to a Fortitude saving throw to survive the attack. If the save is successful, it instead takes 3d6+20 points of damage. For each additional 80 HD affect
ed (or each additional creature affected), increase the Spellcraft DC by +8. Alternatively, a caster can use the }{\i\fs20\cf0 slay }{\fs20\cf0 
seed in an epic spell to suppress the life force of the target by bestowing 2d4 negative levels on the target (or half as many negative le
vels on a successful Fortitude save). For each additional 1d4 negative levels bestowed, increase the Spellcraft DC by +4. If the subject has at least as many negative levels as Hit Dice, it dies. If the subject survives and the negative levels persist for
 24 hours or longer, the subject must make another Fortitude saving throw, or the negative levels are converted to actual level loss. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 SEED: SUMMON 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Summoning) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  14 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  75 ft. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  One summoned creature 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  20 rounds (D) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Will negates (see text) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (see text) 
\par This seed can summon an outsider. It appears where the caster designates and acts immediately, on his or her turn, if its spell resistance is overcome and it fails a Will saving throw. It attacks the caster\rquote 
s opponents to the best of its ability. If the caster can communicate with the outsider, he or she can direct it not to attack, to attack particular enemies, or to perform other acti
ons. The spell conjures an outsider the caster selects of CR 2 or less. For each +1 CR of the summoned outsider, increase the Spellcraft DC by +2. For each additional outsider of the same Challenge Rating summoned, multiply the Spellcraft DC by x2. When a
 caster develops a spell with the }{\i\fs20\cf0 summon }{\fs20\cf0 seed that summons an air, chaotic, earth, evil, fire, good, lawful, or water creature, the completed spell is also of that type. 
\par If the caster increases the Spellcraft DC by +10, he or she can summon a creature of C
R 2 or less from another monster type or subtype. The summoned creature is assumed to have been plucked from some other plane (or somewhere on the same plane). The summoned creature attacks the caster\rquote 
s opponents to the best of its ability; or, if the cast
er can communicate with it, it will perform other actions. However, the summoning ends if the creature is asked to perform a task inimical to its nature. For each +1 CR of the summoned creature, increase the Spellcraft DC by +2. 
\par Finally, by increasing the Spellcraft DC by +60, the caster can summon a unique individual he or she specifies from anywhere in the multiverse. The caster must know the target\rquote 
s name and some facts about its life, defeat any magical protection against discovery or other protection possessed by the target, and overcome the target\rquote 
s spell resistance, and it must fail a Will saving throw. The target is under no special compulsion to serve the caster. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 SEED: TRANSFORM 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Transmutation 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  21 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  300 ft. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One creature or inanimate, nonmagical object 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Permanent 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Fortitude negates (see text) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes 
\par Spells using the }{\i\fs20\cf0 transform }{\fs20\cf0 seed change the subject into another form of creature or object. The new form can range in size from Diminutive to one size larger than the subject\rquote 
s normal form. For each additional increment of size change, increase the Spellcraft DC by +6. If the caster wants to transform a nonmagical, inanimate object into a crea
ture of his or her type or transform a creature into a nonmagical, inanimate object, increase the Spellcraft DC by +10. To change a creature of one type into another type increase the Spellcraft DC by +5. 
\par Transformations involving nonmagical, inanimate substances with hardness are more difficult; for each 2 points of hardness, increase the Spellcraft DC by +1. 
\par To transform a creature into an incorporeal or gaseous form, increase the Spellcraft DC by +10. Conversely, to overcome the natural immunity of a gaseous or incorporeal creature to transformation, increase the Spellcraft DC by +10. 
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 transform }{\fs20\cf0 seed can also change its target into someone specific. To transform an object or creature into the specific likeness of another individual (including memori
es and mental abilities), increase the Spellcraft DC by +25. If the transformed creature doesn\rquote 
t have the level or Hit Dice of its new likeness, it can only use the abilities of the creature at its own level or Hit Dice. If slain or destroyed, the transformed creature or object reverts to its original form. The subject\rquote 
s equipment, if any, remains untransformed or melds into the new form\rquote s body, at the caster\rquote s option. The transformed creature or object acquires the physical and natural abilities of the cre
ature or object it has been changed into while retaining its own memories and mental ability scores. Mental abilities include personality, Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores, level and class, hit points (despite any change in its Constitution score
)
, alignment, base attack bonus, base saves, extraordinary abilities, spells, and spell-like abilities, but not its supernatural abilities. Physical abilities include natural size and Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution scores. Natural abilities include 
a
rmor, natural weapons, and similar gross physical qualities (presence or absence of wings, number of extremities, and so forth), and possibly hardness. Creatures transformed into inanimate objects do not gain the benefit of their untransformed physical ab
ilities, and may well be blind, deaf, dumb, and unfeeling. Objects transformed into creatures gain that creature\rquote s average physical ability scores, but are considered to have mental ability scores of 0 (the }{\i\fs20\cf0 fortify }{\fs20\cf0 
seed can add points to each mental ability
, if desired). For each normal extraordinary ability or supernatural ability granted to the transformed creature, increase the Spellcraft DC by +10. The transformed subject can have no more Hit Dice than the caster has or than the subject has (whichever i
s greater). In any case, for each Hit Die the assumed form has above 15, increase the Spellcraft DC by +2. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 SEED: TRANSPORT 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Conjuration [Teleportation] 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  27 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  You and touched objects or other touched willing creatures weighing up to 1,000 lb. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous, or 5 rounds for temporal transport 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None or Will negates (see text) 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No or Yes (see text) 
\par Spells using the }{\i\fs20\cf0 transport }{\fs20\cf0 seed instantly 
take the caster to a designated destination, regardless of distance. For interplanar travel, increase the Spellcraft DC by +4. For each additional 50 pounds in objects and willing creatures beyond the base 1,000 pounds, increase the Spellcraft DC by +2. T
he base use of the }{\i\fs20\cf0 transport }{\fs20\cf0 
seed provides instantaneous travel through the Astral Plane. To shift the transportation medium to another medium increase the Spellcraft DC by +2. The caster does not need to make a saving throw, nor is spell resistance applica
ble to him or her. Only objects worn or carried (attended) by another person receive saving throws and spell resistance. For a spell intended to transport unwilling creatures, increase the Spellcraft DC by +4. The caster must have at least a reliable desc
ription of the place to which he or she is transporting. If the caster attempts to use the }{\i\fs20\cf0 transport }{\fs20\cf0 seed with insufficient or misleading information, the character disappears and simply reappear in his or her original location. 

\par As a special use of the }{\i\fs20\cf0 transport }{\fs20\cf0 
seed, a caster can develop a spell that temporarily transports him or her into a different time stream (leaving the caster in the same physical location); this increases the Spellcraft DC by +8. If the caster moves him or herself, or the subject, in
to a slower time stream for 5 rounds, time ceases to flow for the subject, and its condition becomes fixed\emdash 
no force or effect can harm it until the duration expires. If the caster moves him or her self into a faster time stream, the caster speeds up so gre
atly that all other creatures seem frozen, though they are actually still moving at their normal speeds. The caster is free to act for 5 rounds of apparent time. Fire, cold, poison gas, and similar effects can still harm the caster. While the caster is in
 
the fast time stream, other creatures are invulnerable to his or her attacks and spells; however, the caster can create spell effects and leave them to take effect when he or she reenters normal time. Because of the branching nature of time, epic spells u
sed to transport a subject into a faster time stream cannot be made permanent, nor can the duration of 5 rounds be extended. More simply, the seed can }{\i\fs20\cf0 haste }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 slow }{\fs20\cf0 
a subject for 20 rounds by transporting it to the appropriate time stream. This decreases the Spellcraft DC by \endash 4. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 SEED: WARD 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Abjuration 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellcraft DC:}{\fs20\cf0  14 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target or Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  Touched creature or object of 2,000 lb. or less; or 10-ft.-radius spherical emanation, centered on you 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  24 hours 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes 
\par This seed can grant a creature protection from damage of a specified type. The caster can protect a creature from standard damage or from energy damage. The caster can protect a creature or area from mag
ic. Alternatively, he or she can hedge out a type of creature from a specified area. A ward against standard damage protects a creature from whichever two the caster selects of the three damage types: bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing. For a ward agains
t all three types, increase the Spellcraft DC by +4. Each round, the spell created with the }{\i\fs20\cf0 ward }{\fs20\cf0 
seed absorbs the first 5 points of damage the creature would otherwise take, regardless of whether the source of the damage is natural or magical. For each additional point of protection, increase the Spellcraft DC by +2. 
\par A ward against energy grants a creature protection from whichever one the caster selects of the five energy types: acid, cold, electricity, fire, or sonic. Each round, the spell absorbs the fir
st 5 points of damage the creature would otherwise take from the specified energy type, regardless of whether the source of damage is natural or magical. The spell protects the recipient\rquote 
s equipment as well. For each additional point of protection, increase the Spellcraft DC by +1. 
\par A ward against a specific type of creature prevents bodily contact from whichever one of several monster types the caster selects. This causes the natural weapon attacks of such creatures to fail and the creatures to recoil if s
uch attacks require touching the warded creature. The protection ends if the warded creature makes an attack against or intentionally moves within 5 feet of the blocked creature. Spell resistance can allow a creature to overcome this protection and touch 
the warded creature. 
\par A ward against magic creates an immobile, faintly shimmering magical sphere (with radius 10 feet) that surrounds the caster and excludes all spell effects of up to 1st level. Alternatively, the caster can ward just the target and not c
reate the radius effect. For each additional level of spells to be excluded, increase the Spellcraft DC by +20 (but see below). The area or effect of any such spells does not include the area of the ward, and such spells fail to affect any target within t
h
e ward. This includes spell-like abilities and spells or spell-like effects from magic items. However, any type of spell can be cast through or out of the ward. The caster can leave and return to the protected area without penalty (unless the spell specif
ically targets a creature and does not provide a radius effect). The ward could be brought down by a targeted }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel magic }{\fs20\cf0 spell. Epic spells using the }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel }{\fs20\cf0 
seed may bring down a ward if the enemy spellcaster succeeds at a caster level check. The ward may also be brought down with a targeted epic spell using the }{\i\fs20\cf0 destroy }{\fs20\cf0 seed if the enemy spellcaster succeeds at a caster level check. 

\par Instead of creating an epic spell that uses the }{\i\fs20\cf0 ward }{\fs20\cf0 seed to nullify all spells of a given level and lower, the caster can c
reate a ward that nullifies a specific spell (or specific set of spells). For each specific spell so nullified, increase the Spellcraft DC by +2 per spell level above 1st. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0\fs36 EPIC PSIONIC POWERS 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 The following adjustments should be made if taking psionic characters to epic levels.
\par  
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Epic Psionic Seeds 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 
Psionic characters can acquire epic powers.  Generally, all the epic spell rules work for epic powers as well, except as noted below for displays.
\par Psionic characters take the Epic Manifestation feat, which works just like the Epic Spellcasting feat. The prerequisites for this feat are 24 ranks of Psicraft, 24 ranks of Knowledge (psionics), and the ability to manifest 9th-level psionic powers. 

\par Just as spellcasters use no spell slots to cast epic spells, psionic
 characters use no power points to manifest epic powers. Instead, they freely manifest their known epic powers a number of times per day equal to their Knowledge (psionics) skill divided by 10 (round down). 
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Table: Psionic Seeds 
\par }\trowd \trrh765\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1830\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 
\cellx1815\clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1245\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx3060\clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4320\clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5580\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }{\b\fs20 Base Psicraft DC}{\b\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }{
\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }{\b\fs20 Base Psicraft DC}{\b\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh765\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1830\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1815\clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1245\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx3060\clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4320\clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5580\row }\trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1830\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1815\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1245\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx3060\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4320\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5580\pard\plain \s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel4\rin0\lin0 
\i\f1\fs20\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Psychometabolism }{\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard\plain \s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel4\rin0\lin0 \i\f1\fs20\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Telepathy }{\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard\plain 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1830\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1815
\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1245\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx3060\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4320\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5580\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Fortify}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 17}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Compel}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 19}{\fs20\dbch\af29 
\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1830\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1815\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1245\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx3060\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4320\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5580\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Slay}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 25}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Contact}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 23}{
\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1830\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1815\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1245\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx3060\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4320\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5580\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Transform}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 21}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Delude}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 14}{\fs20\dbch\af29 
\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1830\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1815\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1245\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx3060\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4320\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5580\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Heal}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 50}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard\plain \s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel4\rin0\lin0 \i\f1\fs20\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Psychokinesis }{
\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1830\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1815\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1245\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx3060\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4320\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5580\row }\pard\plain \s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel4\rin0\lin0 
\i\f1\fs20\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Psychoportation }{\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Dispel}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 19}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1830\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1815\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1245\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx3060\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4320\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5580\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Banish}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 27}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Energy}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 19}{\fs20\dbch\af29 
\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1830\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1815\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1245\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx3060\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4320\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5580\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Summon}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 14}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Reflect}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 27}{
\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1830\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1815\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1245\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx3060\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4320\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5580\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Transport}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 27}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Destroy}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 29}{
\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1830\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1815\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1245\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx3060\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4320\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5580\row }\pard\plain \s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel4\rin0\lin0 
\i\f1\fs20\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Clairsentience }{\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Ward}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 14}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1830\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1815\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1245\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx3060\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4320\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5580\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Afflict}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 14}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard\plain \s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel4\rin0\lin0 \i\f1\fs20\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Metacreativity }{
\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1830\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1815\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1245\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx3060\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4320\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5580\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Foresee}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 17}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Armor}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 14}{\fs20\dbch\af29 
\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1830\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1815\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1245\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx3060\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4320\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5580\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Reveal}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 19}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Conjure}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 21}{
\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1830\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1815\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1245\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx3060\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4320\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5580\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Conceal}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 17}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Animate dead}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 23}{
\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1830\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx1815\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1245\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx3060\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4320\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5580\row }\trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 
\clvmgf\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3075\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx3060\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4320\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5580\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Animate}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 25}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 
{\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvmgf\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3075\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx3060\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4320\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5580\row }\trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 
\clvmrg\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3075\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx3060\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4320\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5580\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Life}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 55}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvmrg\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3075\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx3060\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx4320\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx5580\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Table: Psionic Factors
\par }\trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3975\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 
\cellx3960\clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2078\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx6038\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 
\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20 Psicraft DC Modifier}{\b\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3975\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx3960\clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2078\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx6038\row }\trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3975\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx3960\clvmgf\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2078\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx6038\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0 
\i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Discipline }{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 \endash 5}{
\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3975\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx3960\clvmgf\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2078\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx6038\row }\trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3975\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx3960\clvmrg\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2078\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx6038\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Seed within primary discipline}{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh255\trleft-15\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3975\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx3960\clvmrg\clvertalb
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2078\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx6038\row }\trowd \trrh228\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3975\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx3960\clvertalb\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2078\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx6038\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0 
\i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Display }{\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\dbch\af29 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh228\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3975\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx3960\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2078\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx6038\row }\trowd \trrh462\trleft-15\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3975\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx3960\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2078\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx6038\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Hide visual display (epi
c psionic seeds substitute one Vi display for V and S components)\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 +4\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trrh462\trleft-15
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3975\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx3960\clvertalb\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clNoWrap\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2078\clpadl15\clpadt15\clpadb0\clpadr15\clpadfl3\clpadft3\clpadfb3\clpadfr3 \cellx6038\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s9\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel8\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs36\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {NON-EPIC SPELL
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cf0 
\par Genesis
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Creation)
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f28\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0 Level:}{\f0  Sor/Wiz 9, Creation 9
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Components: }{\fs20 V, S, M, XP
\par }{\b\fs20 Casting Time: }{\fs20 1 week (8 hours/day)
\par }{\b\fs20 Range: }{\fs20 180 ft. (see text)
\par }{\b\fs20 Effect: }{\fs20 A demiplane coterminous with the Ethereal Plane, centered on your location
\par }{\b\fs20 Duration: }{\fs20 Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  None
\par }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20 No
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\cf2\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cf1 
The spellcaster creates a finite plane with limited access: a demiplane. Demiplanes created by this power are very small, very minor planes.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
A character can only cast this spell while on the Ethereal Plane. When he or she casts the spell, a local density fluctuation precipitates the creation of a demiplane. At first, the fledgling plane grows at a rate of 1 foot in radius per day to an
 initial maximum radius of 180 feet as it rapidly draws substance from surrounding ethereal vapors and protomatter.
\par The spellcaster determines the environment within the demiplane when he or she first casts }{\i\fs20 genesis, }{\fs20 reflecting most any desire the spellcast
er can visualize. The spellcaster determines factors such as atmosphere, water, temperature, and the general shape of the terrain. This spell cannot create life (including vegetation), nor can it create construction (such as buildings, roads, wells, }{
\fs20\cf0 dungeo
ns, and so forth). The spellcaster must add these things in some other fashion if he or she desires. Once the basic demiplane reaches its maximum size, the spellcaster can continue to cast this spell to enlarge the demiplane, adding another 180 feet of ra
dius to the demiplane each time.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component:}{\fs20\cf0  A crystalline sphere
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 XP Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 5,000 XP.}{\fs20 
\par }}