{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New{\*\falt Courier};}{\f28\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial Unicode MS;}{\f29\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}@Arial Unicode MS;}
{\f54\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f55\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f57\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f58\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f59\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f60\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f61\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f62\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f63\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f65\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f66\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}
{\f67\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}{\f68\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f69\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f70\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f71\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr{\*\falt Courier};}{\f73\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek{\*\falt Courier};}{\f74\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f75\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier};}{\f76\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic){\*\falt Courier};}{\f77\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic{\*\falt Courier};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 
Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs18\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs17\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{
\s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs46\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 4;}{\s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 5;}{\s6\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 6;}{
\s7\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel6\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 7;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\cs15 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}{
\s16\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Normal (Web);}{\s17\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \v\fs16\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f1\hich\af1\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \shidden HTML Top of Form;}{\s18\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\brdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \v\fs16\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f1\hich\af1\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \shidden HTML Bottom of Form;}{\s19\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar
\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext19 Preformatted;}}{\*\revtbl {Unknown;}}{\info
{\title feat is a special feature that either gives your character a}{\author AKSmith}{\operator asmith}{\creatim\yr2003\mo4\dy25\hr10\min14}{\revtim\yr2003\mo10\dy24\hr11\min37}{\version269}{\edmins455}{\nofpages19}{\nofwords9575}{\nofchars-32766}
{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8203}}\margl1080\margr1080\margt1080\margb1080 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1080
\dgvorigin1080\dghshow1\dgvshow1\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 
This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{\f0\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs36\cf0 FEATS
\par 
\par PREREQUISITES
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Som
e feats have prerequisites. Your character must have the indicated ability score, class feature, feat, skill, base attack bonus, or other quality designated in order to select or use that feat. A character can gain a feat at the same level at which he or 
she gains the prerequisite.
\par A character can\rquote t use a feat if he or she has lost a prerequisite.
\par }{\fs36\cf0 
\par TYPES OF FEATS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Some feats are general, meaning that no special rules govern them as a group. Others are item creation feats, which allow spellcasters to creat
e magic items of all sorts. A metamagic feat lets a spellcaster prepare and cast a spell with greater effect, albeit as if the spell were a higher spell level than it actually is.
\par }{\cf0 
\par FIGHTER BONUS FEATS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Any feat designated as a fighter feat can be selected as a fighter\rquote s bonus feat. This designation does not restrict characters of other classes from selecting these feats, assuming that they meet any prerequisites.
\par }{\cf0 
\par ITEM CREATION FEATS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 An item creation feat lets a spellcaster create a magic item of a certain type. Regardless of the type of items they involve, the various item creation feats all have certain features in common.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 XP Cost:}{\fs20\cf0  Experience that the spellcaster would normally keep is expended when making a magic item. The XP cost equals 1/25 of the cost o
f the item in gold pieces. A character cannot spend so much XP on an item that he or she loses a level. However, upon gaining enough XP to attain a new level, he or she can immediately expend XP on creating an item rather than keeping the XP to advance a 
level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Raw Materials Cost:}{\fs20\cf0  The cost of creating a magic item equals one-half the sale cost of the item.
\par Using an item creation feat also requires access to a laboratory or magical workshop, special tools, and so on. A character generally has access to what he or she needs unless unusual circumstances apply.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Time:}{\fs20\cf0  The time to create a magic item depends on the feat and the cost of the item. The minimum time is one day.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Item Cost:}{\fs20\cf0  Brew Potion, Craft Wand, and Scribe Scroll create items that directly reproduce spell effects, and the power of these items depends on their caster level\emdash 
that is, a spell from such an item has the power it would have if cast by a spellcaster of that level. The price of these items (and thus the XP cost and the cost of the raw material
s) also depends on the caster level. The caster level must be high enough that the spellcaster creating the item can cast the spell at that level. To find the final price in each case, multiply the caster level by the spell level, then multiply the result
 by a constant, as shown below:
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Scrolls: }{\fs20\cf0 Base price = spell level x caster level x \u-4064\'3f25 gp.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Potions: }{\fs20\cf0 Base price = spell level x \u-4064\'3fcaster level x \u-4064\'3f50 gp.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Wands: }{\fs20\cf0 Base price = spell level x \u-4064\'3fcaster level x \u-4064\'3f750 gp.
\par A 0-level spell is considered to have a spell level of 1/2 for the purpose of this calculation.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Extra Costs: }{\fs20\cf0 Any potion, scroll, or wand that stores a spell with a costly material component or an XP cost also carries a commensurate cost. For potions and sc
rolls, the creator must expend the material component or pay the XP cost when creating the item.
\par For a wand, the creator must expend fifty copies of the material component or pay fifty times the XP cost.
\par Some magic items similarly incur extra costs in material components or XP, as noted in their descriptions.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 METAMAGIC FEATS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 As a spellcaster\rquote s knowledge of magic grows, she can learn to cast spells in ways slightly different from the ways in which the spells were originally designed or learned. Preparing an
d casting a spell in such a way is harder than normal but, thanks to metamagic feats, at least it is possible.  Spells modified by a metamagic feat use a spell slot higher than normal. This does not change the level of the spell, so the DC for saving thro
ws against it does not go up.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Wizards and Divine Spellcasters:}{\fs20\cf0  Wizards and divine spellcasters must prepare their spells in advance. During preparation, the character chooses which spells to prepare with metamagic feats (and thus which ones take up higher-l
evel spell slots than normal).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Sorcerers and Bards:}{\fs20\cf0  Sorcerers and bards choose spells as they cast them. They can choose when they cast their spells whether to apply their metamagic feats to improve them. As with other spellcasters, the improved spell uses
 up a higher-level spell slot. But because the sorcerer or bard has not prepared the spell in a metamagic form in advance, he must apply the metamagic feat on the spot. Therefore, such a character must also take more time to cast a metamagic spell (one en
hanced by a metamagic feat) than he does to cast a regular spell. If the spell\rquote s normal casting time is 1 action, casting a metamagic version is a full-round action for a sorcerer or bard. (This isn\rquote t the same as a 1-round casting time.)

\par For a spell with a longer casting time, it takes an extra full-round action to cast the spell.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spontaneous Casting and Metamagic Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 A cleric spontaneously casting a }{\i\fs20\cf0 cure }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 inflict }{\fs20\cf0 
spell can cast a metamagic version of it instead. Extra time is also required in this case. Casting a 1-action metamagic spell spontaneously is a full-round action, and a spell with a longer casting time takes an extra full-round action to cast.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effects of Metamagic Feats on a Spell:}{\fs20\cf0  In all ways, a metamagic spell operates at its original spell
 level, even though it is prepared and cast as a higher-level spell. Saving throw modifications are not changed unless stated otherwise in the feat description.
\par The modifications made by these feats only apply to spells cast directly by the feat user. A spellcaster can\rquote t use a metamagic feat to alter a spell being cast from a wand, scroll, or other device.
\par Metamagic feats that eliminate components of a spell don\rquote t eliminate the attack of opportunity provoked by casting a spell while threatened. However, casting a spell modified by Quicken Spell does not provoke an attack of opportunity.
\par Metamagic feats cannot be used with all spells. See the specific feat descriptions for the spells that a particular feat can\rquote t modify.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Multiple Metamagic Feats on a Spell:}{\fs20\cf0  A spellcaster can apply multiple metamagic feats to a single spell. Changes to its level are cumulative. You can\rquote t apply the same metamagic feat more than once to a single spell.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Magic Items and Metamagic Spells:}{\fs20\cf0  With the right item creation feat, you can store a metamagic version of a spell in a scroll, potion, or wand. Level limits for potions and wands apply to the spell\rquote 
s higher spell level (after the application of the metamagic feat). A character doesn\rquote t need the metamagic feat to activate an item storing a metamagic version of a spell.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Counterspelling Metamagic Spells:}{\fs20\cf0  Whether or not a spell has been enhanced by a metamagic feat does not affect its vulnerability to counterspelling or its ability to counterspell another spell.
\par }{\fs36\cf0 
\par FEAT DESCRIPTIONS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Here is the format for feat descriptions.
\par }{\cf0 
\par FEAT NAME }{\fs20\cf0 [TYPE OF FEAT]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisite:}{\fs20\cf0  A minimum ability score, another feat or feats, a minimum base attack bonus, a minimum number of ranks in one or more skills, or a class level that a character must have in order
 to acquire this feat. This entry is absent if a feat has no prerequisite. A feat may have more than one prerequisite.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  What the feat enables the character (\'93you\'94 in the feat description) to do. If a character has the same feat more than once, its benefits do not stack unless indicated otherwise in the description.
\par In general, having a feat twice is the same as having it once.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Normal:}{\fs20\cf0  What a character who does not have this feat is limited to or restricted from doing. If not having the feat causes no particular drawback, this entry is absent.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special: }{\fs20\cf0 Additional facts about the feat that may be helpful when you decide whether to acquire the feat.
\par }{\cf0 
\par 
\par ACROBATIC }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You get a +2 bonus on all Jump checks and Tumble checks.
\par }{\cf0 
\par AGILE }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You get a +2 bonus on all Balance checks and Escape Artist checks.
\par }{\cf0 
\par ALERTNESS }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You get a +2 bonus on all Listen checks and Spot checks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special: }{\fs20\cf0 The master of a familiar gains the benefit of the Alertness feat whenever the familiar is within arm\rquote s reach.
\par }{\cf0 
\par ANIMAL AFFINITY }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You get a +2 bonus on all Handle Animal checks and Ride checks.
\par }{\cf0 
\par ARMOR PROFICIENCY (HEAVY) }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisites:}{\fs20\cf0  Armor Proficiency (light), Armor Proficiency (medium).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  See Armor Proficiency (light).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Normal:}{\fs20\cf0  See Armor Proficiency (light).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  Fighters, paladins, and clerics automatically have Armor Proficiency (heavy) as a bonus feat. They need not select it.
\par }{\cf0 
\par ARMOR PROFICIENCY (LIGHT) }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  When you wear a type of armor with which you are proficient, the armor check penalty for that armor applies only to Balance, Climb, Escape Artist, Hide, Jump, Move Silently, Sleight of Hand, and Tumble checks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Normal:}{\fs20\cf0  A character who is wearing armor with which she is not proficient applies its armor check penalty to attack rolls and to all skill checks that involve moving, including Ride.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  All characters except wizards, sorcerers, and monks automatically have Armor Proficiency (light) as a bonus feat. They need not select it.
\par }{\cf0 
\par ARMOR PROFICIENCY (MEDIUM) }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisite:}{\fs20\cf0  Armor Proficiency (light).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  See Armor Proficiency (light).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Normal:}{\fs20\cf0  See Armor Proficiency (light).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  Fighters, barbarians, paladins, clerics, druids, and bards automatically have Armor Proficiency (medium) as a bonus feat. They need not select it.
\par }{\cf0 
\par ATHLETIC }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You get a +2 bonus on all Climb checks and Swim checks.
\par }{\cf0 
\par AUGMENT SUMMONING }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisite:}{\fs20\cf0  Spell Focus (conjuration).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  Each creature you conjure with any }{\i\fs20\cf0 summon }{\fs20\cf0 spell gains a +4 enhancement bonus to Strength and Constitution for the duration of the spell that summoned it.
\par }{\cf0 
\par BLIND-FIGHT }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  In melee, every time you miss because of concealment, you can reroll your miss chance percentile roll one time to see if you actually hit.
\par An invisible attacker gets no advantages related to hitting you in melee. That is, you don\rquote t lose your Dexterity bonus to Armor Class, and the attacker doesn\rquote t get the usual +2 bonus for being invisible. The invisible attacker\rquote 
s bonuses do still apply for ranged attacks, however.
\par You take only half the usual penalty to speed for being unable to see. Darkness and poor visibility in general reduces your speed to three-quarters normal, instead of one-half.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Normal:}{\fs20\cf0  Regular attack roll modifiers for invisible attackers trying to hit you apply, and you lose your Dexterity bonus to AC. The speed reduction for darkness and poor visibility also applies.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  The Blind-Fight feat is of no use against a character who is the subject of a }{\i\fs20\cf0 blink }{\fs20\cf0 spell.
\par A fighter may select Blind-Fight as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par }{\cf0 
\par BREW POTION }{\fs20\cf0 [ITEM CREATION]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisite:}{\fs20\cf0  Caster level 3rd.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You can create a potion of any 3rd-level or lower spell that you know and that targets one or more creatures. Brewing a potion takes one day. When you create 
a potion, you set the caster level, which must be sufficient to cast the spell in question and no higher than your own level. The base price of a potion is its spell level x \u-4064\'3fits caster level x \u-4064\'3f
50 gp. To brew a potion, you must spend 1/25 of this base price in XP and use up raw materials costing one half this base price.
\par When you create a potion, you make any choices that you would normally make when casting the spell. Whoever drinks the potion is the target of the spell.
\par Any potion that stores a spell with a costly material component or an XP cost also carries a commensurate cost. In addition to the costs derived from the base price, you must expend the material component or pay the XP when creating the potion.
\par }{\cf0 
\par CLEAVE }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisites:}{\fs20\cf0  Str 13, Power Attack.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0 
 If you deal a creature enough damage to make it drop (typically by dropping it to below 0 hit points or killing it), you get an immediate, extra melee attack against another creature within reach. You cannot take a 5-foot step before mak
ing this extra attack. The extra attack is with the same weapon and at the same bonus as the attack that dropped the previous creature. You can use this ability once per round.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  A fighter may select Cleave as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par }{\cf0 
\par COMBAT CASTING }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You get a +4 bonus on Concentration checks made to cast a spell or use a spell-like ability while on the defensive or while you are grappling or pinned.
\par }{\cf0 
\par COMBAT EXPERTISE }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisite:}{\fs20\cf0  Int 13.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  When you use the attack action or the full attack action in melee, you can take a penalty of as much as \endash 
5 on your attack roll and add the same number (+5 or less) as a dodge bonus to your Armor Class. This number may not exceed your base attack bonus. The changes to attack rolls and Armor Class last until your next action.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Normal:}{\fs20\cf0  A character without the Combat Expertise feat can fight defensively while using the attack or full attack action to take a \endash 4 penalty on attack rolls and gain a +2 dodge bonus to Armor Class.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  A fighter may select Combat Expertise as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par }{\cf0 
\par COMBAT REFLEXES }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You may make a number of additional attacks of opportunity equal to your Dexterity bonus.
\par With this feat, you may also make attacks of opportunity while flat-footed.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Normal:}{\fs20\cf0  A character without this feat can make only one attack of opportunity per round and can\rquote t make attacks of opportunity while flat-footed.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  The Combat Reflexes feat does not allow a rogue to use her opportunist ability more than once per round.
\par A fighter may select Combat Reflexes as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par A monk may select Combat Reflexes as a bonus feat at 2nd level.
\par }{\cf0 
\par CRAFT MAGIC ARMS AND ARMOR }{\fs20\cf0 [ITEM CREATION]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisite:}{\fs20\cf0  Caster level 5th.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You can create any magic weapon, armor, or shield whose prerequisites you meet. Enhancing a weapon, suit of armor, or shield takes one day for each 1,000 gp in the price of its magical 
features. To enhance a weapon, suit of armor, or shield, you must spend 1/25 of its features\rquote  total price in XP and use up raw materials costing one-half of this total price.
\par The weapon, armor, or shield to be enhanced must be a masterwork item that you provide. Its cost is not included in the above cost.
\par You can also mend a broken magic weapon, suit of armor, or shield if it is one that you could make. Doing so costs half the XP, half the raw materials, and half the time it would take to craft that item in the first place.
\par }{\cf0 
\par CRAFT ROD }{\fs20\cf0 [ITEM CREATION]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisite:}{\fs20\cf0  Caster level 9th.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You can create any rod whose prerequisites you meet. Crafting a rod takes one day for each 1,000 gp in its base price. To craft a rod, you must spend 1/25 of its base pri
ce in XP and use up raw materials costing one-half of its base price.
\par Some rods incur extra costs in material components or XP, as noted in their descriptions. These costs are in addition to those derived from the rod\rquote s base price.
\par }{\cf0 
\par CRAFT STAFF }{\fs20\cf0 [ITEM CREATION]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisite:}{\fs20\cf0  Caster level 12th.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You can create any staff whose prerequisites you meet.
\par Crafting a staff takes one day for each 1,000 gp in its base price. To craft a staff, you must spend 1/25 of its base price in XP and use up raw materials costing one-half of its base price. A newly created staff has 50 charges.
\par Some staffs incur extra costs in material components or XP, as noted in their descriptions. These costs are in addition to those derived from the staff \rquote s base price.
\par }{\cf0 
\par CRAFT WAND }{\fs20\cf0 [ITEM CREATION]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisite:}{\fs20\cf0  Caster level 5th.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You can create a wand of any 4th-level or lower spell that you know. Crafting a wand takes one day for each 1,000 gp in its base price. The base price of a wand is its caster level x \u-4064\'3fthe spell level x
 750 gp. To craft a wand, you must spend 1/25 of this base price in XP and use up raw materials costing one-half of this base price. A newly created wand has 50 charges.
\par Any wand that stores a spell with a costly material component or an XP cost also carries a commensurate cost. In addition to the cost derived from the base price, you must expend fifty copies of the material component or pay fifty times the XP cost.

\par }{\cf0 
\par CRAFT WONDROUS ITEM }{\fs20\cf0 [ITEM CREATION]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisite:}{\fs20\cf0  Caster level 3rd.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You can create any wondrous item whose prerequisites you meet. Enchanting a wondrous item takes one day for each 1,000 gp in its price. To enchant a wondrous item, you must spend 1/25 of the item\rquote 
s price in XP and use up raw materials costing half of this price.
\par You can also mend a broken wondrous item if it is one that you could make. Doing so costs half the XP, half the raw materials, and half the time it would take to craft that item in the first place.
\par Some wondrous items incur extra costs in material components or XP, as noted in their descriptions. These costs are in addition to those derived from the item\rquote s base price. You must pay such a cost to create an item or to mend a broken one.
\par }{\cf0 
\par DECEITFUL }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You get a +2 bonus on all Disguise checks and Forgery checks.
\par }{\cf0 
\par DEFLECT ARROWS }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisites:}{\fs20\cf0  Dex 13, Improved Unarmed Strike.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You must have at least one hand free (holding nothing) to use this feat. Once per round when you
 would normally be hit with a ranged weapon, you may deflect it so that you take no damage from it. You must be aware of the attack and not flatfooted.
\par Attempting to deflect a ranged weapon doesn\rquote t count as an action. Unusually massive ranged weapons and ranged attacks generated by spell effects can\rquote t be deflected.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  A monk may select Deflect Arrows as a bonus feat at 2nd level, even if she does not meet the prerequisites.
\par A fighter may select Deflect Arrows as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par }{\cf0 
\par DEFT HANDS }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You get a +2 bonus on all Sleight of Hand checks and Use Rope checks.
\par }{\cf0 
\par DIEHARD }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisite:}{\fs20\cf0  Endurance.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  When reduced to between \endash 1 and \endash 9 hit points, you automatically become stable. You don\rquote t have to roll d% to see if you lose 1 hit point each round.
\par When reduced to negative hit points, you may choose to act as if you were disabled, rather than dying. You must make this decision as soon as you are reduced to negative hit points (even if it isn\rquote t your turn). If you
 do not choose to act as if you were disabled, you immediately fall unconscious.
\par When using this feat, you can take either a single move or standard action each turn, but not both, and you cannot take a full round action. You can take a move action without
 further injuring yourself, but if you perform any standard action (or any other action deemed as strenuous, including some free actions, such as casting a quickened spell) you take 1 point of damage after completing the act. If you reach \endash 
10 hit points, you immediately die.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Normal:}{\fs20\cf0  A character without this feat who is reduced to between \endash 1 and \endash 9 hit points is unconscious and dying.
\par }{\cf0 
\par DILIGENT }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You get a +2 bonus on all Appraise checks and Decipher Script checks.
\par }{\cf0 
\par DODGE }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisite:}{\fs20\cf0  Dex 13.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  During your action, you designate an opponent and receive a +1 dodge bonus to Armor Class against attacks from that opponent. You can select a new opponent on any action.
\par A condition that makes you lose your Dexterity bonus to Armor Class (if any) also makes you lose dodge bonuses. Also, dodge bonuses stack with each other, unlike most other types of bonuses.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  A fighter may select Dodge as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par }{\cf0 
\par EMPOWER SPELL }{\fs20\cf0 [METAMAGIC]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  All variable, numeric effects of an empowered spell are increased by one-half.
\par Saving throws and opposed rolls are not affected, nor are spells without random variables. An empowered spell uses up a spell slot two levels higher than the spell\rquote s actual level.
\par }{\cf0 
\par ENDURANCE }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You gain a +4 bonus on the following checks and saves: Swim checks made to resist nonlethal damage, Constitution checks made to continue running, Constitution checks made to avoid nonlethal damage from
 a forced march, Constitution checks made to hold your breath, Constitution checks made to avoid nonlethal damage from starvation or thirst, Fortitude saves made to avoid nonlethal damage from hot or cold environments, and Fortitude saves made to resist d
amage from suffocation. Also, you may sleep in light or medium armor without becoming fatigued.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Normal:}{\fs20\cf0  A character without this feat who sleeps in medium or heavier armor is automatically fatigued the next day.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  A ranger automatically gains Endurance as a bonus feat at 3rd level. He need not select it.
\par }{\cf0 
\par ENLARGE SPELL }{\fs20\cf0 [METAMAGIC]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You can alter a spell with a range of close, medium, or long to increase its range by 100%. An enlarged spell with a range of close now has a range of 50 ft. + 5 ft
./level, while medium-range spells have a range of 200 ft. + 20 ft./level and long-range spells have a range of 800 ft. + 80 ft./level. An enlarged spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell\rquote s actual level.
\par Spells whose ranges are not defined by distance, as well as spells whose ranges are not close, medium, or long, do not have increased ranges.
\par }{\cf0 
\par ESCHEW MATERIALS }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You can cast any spell that has a material component costing 1 gp or less without needing that component. (The
 casting of the spell still provokes attacks of opportunity as normal.) If the spell requires a material component that costs more than 1 gp, you must have the material component at hand to cast the spell, just as normal.
\par }{\cf0 
\par EXOTIC WEAPON PROFICIENCY }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par Choose a type of exotic weapon. You understand how to use that type of exotic weapon in combat.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisite:}{\fs20\cf0  Base attack bonus +1 (plus Str 13 for bastard sword or dwarven waraxe).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You make attack rolls with the weapon normally.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Normal:}{\fs20\cf0  A character who uses a weapon with which he or she is not proficient takes a \endash 4 penalty on attack rolls.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  You can gain Exotic Weapon Proficiency multiple times. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new type of exotic weapon. Proficiency with the 
bastard sword or the dwarven waraxe has an additional prerequisite of Str 13.
\par A fighter may select Exotic Weapon Proficiency as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par }{\cf0 
\par EXTEND SPELL }{\fs20\cf0 [METAMAGIC]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  An extended spell lasts twice as long as normal. A spell with a duration of concentration, instantaneous, or permanent is not affected by this feat. An extended spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell
\rquote s actual level.
\par }{\cf0 
\par EXTRA TURNING }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisite:}{\fs20\cf0  Ability to turn or rebuke creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  Each time you take this feat, you can use your ability to turn or rebuke creatures four more times per day than normal.
\par If you have the ability to turn or rebuke more than one kind of creature each of your turning or rebuking abilities gains four additional uses per day.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Normal:}{\fs20\cf0  Without this feat, a character can typically turn or rebuke undead (or other creatures) a number of times per day equal to 3 + his or her Charisma modifier.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  You can gain Extra Turning multiple times. Its effects stack. Each time you take the feat, you can use each of your turning or rebuking abilities four additional times per day.
\par }{\cf0 
\par FAR SHOT }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisite:}{\fs20\cf0  Point Blank Shot.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  When you use a projectile weapon, such as a bow, its range increment increases by one-half (multiply by 1-1/2). When you use a thrown weapon, its range increment is doubled.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  A fighter may select Far Shot as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par }{\cf0 
\par FORGE RING }{\fs20\cf0 [ITEM CREATION]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisite:}{\fs20\cf0  Caster level 12th.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You can create any ring whose prerequisites you meet. Crafting a ring takes one day for each 1,000 gp in its base price. To craft a ring, you must spend 1/25 of its base price in XP and use up 
raw materials costing one-half of its base price.
\par You can also mend a broken ring if it is one that you could make. Doing so costs half the XP, half the raw materials, and half the time it would take to forge that ring in the first place.
\par Some magic rings incur extra costs in material components or XP, as noted in their descriptions. You must pay such a cost to forge such a ring or to mend a broken one.
\par }{\cf0 
\par GREAT CLEAVE }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisites:}{\fs20\cf0  Str 13, Cleave, Power Attack, base attack bonus +4.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  This feat works like Cleave, except that there is no limit to the number of times you can use it per round.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  A fighter may select Great Cleave as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par }{\cf0 
\par GREAT FORTITUDE }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You get a +2 bonus on all Fortitude saving throws.
\par }{\cf0 
\par GREATER SPELL FOCUS }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par Choose a school of magic to which you already have applied the Spell Focus feat.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  Add +1 to the Difficulty Class for all saving throws against spells from the school of magic you select. This bonus stacks with the bonus from Spell Focus.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new school of magic to which you already have applied the Spell Focus feat.
\par }{\cf0 
\par GREATER SPELL PENETRATION }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisite:}{\fs20\cf0  Spell Penetration.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You get a +2 bonus on caster level checks (1d20 + caster level) made to overcome a creature\rquote s spell resistance. This bonus stacks with the one from Spell Penetration.
\par }{\cf0 
\par GREATER TWO-WEAPON FIGHTING }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisites:}{\fs20\cf0  Dex 19, Improved Two-Weapon Fighting, Two-Weapon Fighting, base attack bonus +11.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You get a third attack with your off-hand weapon, albeit at a \endash 10 penalty.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  A fighter may select Greater Two-Weapon Fighting as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par An 11th-level ranger who has chosen the two-weapon combat style is treated as having Greater Two-Weapon Fighting, even if he does not have the prerequisites for it, but only when he is wearing light or no armor.
\par }{\cf0 
\par GREATER WEAPON FOCUS }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par Choose one type of weapon for which you have already selected Weapon Focus. You can also choose unarmed strike or grapple as your weapon for purposes of this feat.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0  Prerequisites:}{\fs20\cf0  Proficiency with selected weapon, Weapon Focus with selected weapon, fighter level 8th.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You gain a +1 bonus on all attack rolls you make using the selected weapon. This bonus stacks with other bonuses on attack rolls, including the one from Weapon Focus (see below).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  You can gain Greater Weapon Focus multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new type of weapon.
\par A fighter must have Greater Weapon Focus with a given weapon to gain the Greater Weapon Specialization feat for that weapon. 
\par A fighter may select Greater Weapon Focus as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par }{\cf0 
\par GREATER WEAPON SPECIALIZATION }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par Choose one type of weapon for which you have already selected Weapon Specialization. You can also choose unarmed strike or grapple as your weapon for purposes of this feat.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0  Prerequisites:}{\fs20\cf0  Proficiency with selected weapon, Greater Weapon Focus with selected weapon, Weapon Focus with selected weapon, Weapon Specialization with selected weapon, fighter level 12th.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You gain a +2 bonus on all damage rolls you make using the selected weapon. This bonus stacks with other bonuses on damage rolls, including the one from Weapon Specialization (see below).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  You can gain Greater Weapon Specialization multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new type of weapon.
\par A fighter may select Greater Weapon Specialization as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par }{\cf0 
\par HEIGHTEN SPELL }{\fs20\cf0 [METAMAGIC]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  A heightened spell has a higher spell level t
han normal (up to a maximum of 9th level). Unlike other metamagic feats, Heighten Spell actually increases the effective level of the spell that it modifies. All effects dependent on spell level (such as saving throw DCs and ability to penetrate a }{
\i\fs20\cf0 lesser globe of invulnerability}{\fs20\cf0 ) are calculated according to the heightened level. The heightened spell is as difficult to prepare and cast as a spell of its effective level. 
\par }{\cf0 
\par IMPROVED BULL RUSH }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisites:}{\fs20\cf0  Str 13, Power Attack.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  When you perform a bull rush you do not provoke an attack of opportunity from the defender. You also gain a +4 bonus on the opposed Strength check you make to push back the defender.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  A fighter may select Improved Bull Rush as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par }{\cf0 
\par IMPROVED COUNTERSPELL }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit: }{\fs20\cf0 When counterspelling, you may use a spell of the same school that is one or more spell levels higher than the target spell.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Normal:}{\fs20\cf0  Without this feat, you may counter a spell only with the same spell or with a spell specifically designated as countering the target spell.
\par }{\cf0 
\par IMPROVED CRITICAL }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par Choose one type of weapon.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisite:}{\fs20\cf0  Proficient with weapon, base attack bonus +8.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  When using the weapon you selected, your threat range is doubled.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  You can gain Improved Critical multiple times. The effects do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new type of weapon.
\par This effect doesn\rquote t stack with any other effect that expands the threat range of a weapon.
\par A fighter may select Improved Critical as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par }{\cf0 
\par IMPROVED DISARM }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisites:}{\fs20\cf0  Int 13, Combat Expertise.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You do not provoke an attack of opportunity when you attempt to disarm an opponent, nor does the opponent have a chance to disarm you. You also gain a +4 bonus on the opposed attack roll you make to disarm your opponent.

\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Normal:}{\fs20\cf0  See the normal disarm rules.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  A fighter may select Improved Disarm as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par A monk may select Improved Disarm as a bonus feat at 6th level, even if she does not meet the prerequisites.
\par }{\cf0 
\par IMPROVED FAMILIAR }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par This feat allows spellcasters to acquire a new familiar from a nonstandard list, but only when they could normally acquire a new familiar.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisites:}{\fs20\cf0  Ability to acquire a new familiar, compatible alignment, sufficiently high level (see below).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  Whe
n choosing a familiar, the creatures listed below are also available to the spellcaster. The spellcaster may choose a familiar with an alignment up to one step away on each of the alignment axes (lawful through chaotic, good through evil).
\par 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1403\clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2802
\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1698 \cellx4500\pard\plain \s6\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel5\rin0\lin0 \b\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Familiar }{\cell }{\fs20 
Alignment }{\cell }\pard \s6\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel5\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Arcane Spellcaster Level}{\cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 
\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1403
\clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2802\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1698 \cellx4500\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1403\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2802\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1698 \cellx4500\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Shocker lizard }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 Neutral }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 5th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1403\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2802\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1698 \cellx4500\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Stirge }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 Neutral }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 5th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1403\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2802\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1698 \cellx4500\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Formian worker }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 Lawful neutral }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 7th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1403\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2802\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1698 \cellx4500\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Imp }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 Lawful evil }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 7th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1403\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2802\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1698 \cellx4500\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Pseudodragon }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 Neutral good }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 7th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1403\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2802\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1698 \cellx4500\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1403\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2802\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1698 \cellx4500\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Quasit }{
\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 Chaotic evil }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 7th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1403\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2802\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1698 \cellx4500\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\cf0 
\par Improved familiars otherwise use the rules for regular familiars}{\i\fs20\cf0 , }{\fs20\cf0 with two exceptions: If the creature\rquote 
s type is something other than animal, its type does not change; and improved familiars do not gain the ability to speak with other creatures of their kind (although many of them already have the ability to communicate).
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 The list in the table above presents only a few possible improved familiars. Almost any creature of the same general size and power as those on the list makes a suitable familiar. Nor is 
the master\rquote s alignment the only possible categorization. For instance, improved familiars could be assigned by the master\rquote s creature type or subtype, as shown below.
\par }{\b\fs20 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3426 \cellx3318\clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1506 \cellx4824\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1836 \cellx6660\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20 Familiar\cell Type/Subtype\cell }\pard\plain 
\s7\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel6\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Arcane Spellcaster Level\cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 
\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3426 
\cellx3318\clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1506 \cellx4824\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1836 \cellx6660\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3426 \cellx3318\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1506 \cellx4824\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1836 \cellx6660\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Celestial hawk}{\b\fs20\super 1}{\fs20 \cell Good
\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 3rd\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3426 \cellx3318\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1506 \cellx4824\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1836 \cellx6660\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Fiendish Tiny viper snake}{\b\fs20\super 2}{
\b\fs20 \cell }{\fs20 Evil\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 3rd\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3426 \cellx3318\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1506 \cellx4824\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1836 \cellx6660\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Air elemental, Small\cell Air\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 5th\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3426 \cellx3318\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1506 \cellx4824\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1836 \cellx6660\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Earth elemental, Small\cell Earth\cell 
}\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 5th\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3426 \cellx3318\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1506 \cellx4824\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1836 \cellx6660\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Fire elemental, Small\cell Fire\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 5th\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3426 \cellx3318\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1506 \cellx4824\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1836 \cellx6660\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Shocker lizard\cell Electricity\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 5th\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3426 \cellx3318\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1506 \cellx4824\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1836 \cellx6660\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Water elemental, Small\cell Water\cell 
}\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 5th\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3426 \cellx3318\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1506 \cellx4824\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1836 \cellx6660\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Homunculus}{\b\fs20\super 3}{\b\fs20 \cell }
{\fs20 Undead\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 7th\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3426 \cellx3318\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1506 \cellx4824\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1836 \cellx6660\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Ice mephit\cell Cold\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 7th\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3426 \cellx3318\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1506 \cellx4824\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1836 \cellx6660\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6768 \cellx6660\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 1 Or other c
elestial animal from the standard familiar list.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6768 \cellx6660\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 
2 Or other fiendish animal from the standard familiar list.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6768 \cellx6660\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6768 \cellx6660\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 
3 The master must first create the homunculus, substituting ichor or another part of the master\rquote s body for blood if necessary.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6768 \cellx6660\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
{\cf0 
\par IMPROVED FEINT }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisites:}{\fs20\cf0  Int 13, Combat Expertise.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You can make a Bluff check to feint in combat as a move action.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Normal:}{\fs20\cf0  Feinting in combat is a standard action.
\par A fighter may select Improved Feint as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par }{\cf0 
\par IMPROVED GRAPPLE }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisites:}{\fs20\cf0  Dex 13, Improved Unarmed Strike.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You do not provoke an attack of opportunity when you make a touch attack to start a grapple. You also gain a +4 bonus on all grapple checks, regardless of whether you started the grapple.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Normal:}{\fs20\cf0  Without this feat, you provoke an attack of opportunity when you make a touch attack to start a grapple.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  A fighter may select Improved Grapple as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par A monk may select Improved Grapple as a bonus feat at 1st level, even if she does not meet the prerequisites.
\par }{\cf0 
\par IMPROVED INITIATIVE }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You get a +4 bonus on initiative checks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  A fighter may select Improved Initiative as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par }{\cf0 
\par IMPROVED OVERRUN }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisites:}{\fs20\cf0  Str 13, Power Attack.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  When you attempt to overrun an opponent, the target may not choose to avoid you. You also gain a +4 bonus on your Strength check to knock down your opponent.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Normal:}{\fs20\cf0  Without this feat, the target of an overrun can choose to avoid you or to block you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  A fighter may select Improved Overrun as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par }{\cf0 
\par IMPROVED PRECISE SHOT }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisites:}{\fs20\cf0  Dex 19, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, base attack bonus +11.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  Your range
d attacks ignore the AC bonus granted to targets by anything less than total cover, and the miss chance granted to targets by anything less than total concealment. Total cover and total concealment provide their normal benefits against your ranged attacks
.
\par In addition, when you shoot or throw ranged weapons at a grappling opponent, you automatically strike at the opponent you have chosen.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Normal:}{\fs20\cf0  See the normal rules on the effects of cover and concealment. Without this feat, a character who shoots or throw
s a ranged weapon at a target involved in a grapple must roll randomly to see which grappling combatant the attack strikes.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  A fighter may select Improved Precise Shot as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par An 11th-level ranger who has chosen the archery combat style is treated as having Improved Precise Shot, even if he does not have the prerequisites for it, but only when he is wearing light or no armor.
\par }{\cf0 
\par IMPROVED SHIELD BASH }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisite:}{\fs20\cf0  Shield Proficiency.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  When you perform a shield bash, you may still apply the shield\rquote s shield bonus to your AC.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Normal:}{\fs20\cf0  Without this feat, a character who performs a shield bash loses the shield\rquote s shield bonus to AC until his or her next turn.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  A fighter may select Improved Shield Bash as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par }{\cf0 
\par IMPROVED SUNDER }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisites:}{\fs20\cf0  Str 13, Power Attack.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  When you strike at an object held or carried by an opponent (such as a weapon or shield), you do not provoke an attack of opportunity.
\par You also gain a +4 bonus on any attack roll made to attack an object held or carried by another character.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Normal:}{\fs20\cf0  Without this feat, you provoke an attack of opportunity when you strike at an object held or carried by another character.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  A fighter may select Improved Sunder as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par }{\cf0 
\par IMPROVED TRIP }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisites:}{\fs20\cf0  Int 13, Combat Expertise.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You do not provoke an attack of opportunity when you attempt to trip an opponent while you are unarmed. You also gain a +4 bonus on your Strength check to trip your opponent.
\par If you trip an opponent in melee combat, you immediately get a melee attack against that opponent as if you hadn\rquote t used your attack for the trip attempt. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Normal:}{\fs20\cf0  Without this feat, you provoke an attack of opportunity when you attempt to trip an opponent while you are unarmed.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  At 6th level, a monk may select Improved Trip as a bonus feat, even if she does not have the prerequisites.
\par A fighter may select Improved Trip as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par }{\cf0 
\par IMPROVED TURNING }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisite:}{\fs20\cf0  Ability to turn or rebuke creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You turn or rebuke creatures as if you were one level higher than you are in the class that grants you the ability.
\par }{\cf0 
\par IMPROVED TWO-WEAPON FIGHTING }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisites:}{\fs20\cf0  Dex 17, Two-Weapon Fighting, base attack bonus +6.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  In addition to the standard single extra attack you get with an off-hand weapon, you get a second attack with it, albeit at a \endash 5 penalty.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Normal:}{\fs20\cf0  Without this feat, you can only get a single extra attack with an off-hand weapon.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  A fighter may select Improved Two-Weapon Fighting as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par A 6th-level ranger who has chosen the two-weapon combat style is treated as having Improved Two-Weapon Fighting, even if he does not have the prerequisites for it, but only when he is wearing light or no armor.
\par }{\cf0 
\par IMPROVED UNARMED STRIKE }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You are considered to be armed even when unarmed \emdash 
that is, you do not provoke attacks or opportunity from armed opponents when you attack them while unarmed. However, you still get an attack of opportunity against any opponent who makes an unarmed attack on you.
\par In addition, your unarmed strikes can deal lethal or nonlethal damage, at your option.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Normal: }{\fs20\cf0 Without this feat, you are considered unarmed when attacking with an unarmed strike, and you can deal only nonlethal damage with such an attack.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  A monk automatically gains Improved Unarmed Strike as a bonus feat at 1st level. She need not select it. 
\par A fighter may select Improved Unarmed Strike as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par }{\cf0 
\par INVESTIGATOR }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You get a +2 bonus on all Gather Information checks and Search checks.
\par }{\cf0 
\par IRON WILL }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You get a +2 bonus on all Will saving throws.
\par }{\cf0 
\par LEADERSHIP }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisite:}{\fs20\cf0  Character level 6th.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefits:}{\fs20\cf0  Having this feat enables the character to attract loyal companions and devoted followers, subordinates who assist her. See the table below for what sort of cohort and how many followers the character can recruit.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Leadership Modifiers: }{\fs20\cf0 Several factors can affect a character\rquote s Leadership score, causing it to vary from the base score (character level + Cha modifier). A character\rquote 
s reputation (from the point of view of the cohort or follower he is trying to attract) raises or lowers his Leadership score:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1997\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2969\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Leader\rquote s Reputation }{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard\plain \s3\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0 \b\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\fs20 Modifier}{\b0 \cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1997\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2969\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1997\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2969\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Great renown }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +2}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1997\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2969\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Fairness and generosity }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +1}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1997\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2969\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Special power }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +1}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1997\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2969\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Failure }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 1}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1997\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2969\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Aloofness }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 1}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1997\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2969\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1997\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2969\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20\cf0 Cruelty }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 2}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1997\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2969\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\cf0 
\par Other modifiers may apply when the character tries to attract a cohort:
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4257\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5229\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 The Leader . . . }{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 Modifier}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs18\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4257\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5229\row }\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4257\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5229\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Has a familiar, special mount, or animal companion }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 2}{\fs18\cf0 
\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4257\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5229\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
Recruits a cohort of a different alignment}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 1}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4257\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5229\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Caused the death of a cohort }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 2*}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4257\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5229\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5229\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 * Cumulative per cohort killed.}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5229\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\cf0 
\par Followers have different priorities from cohorts. When the character tries to attract a new follower, use any of the following modifiers that apply.
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4908\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5880\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 The Leader . . . }{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 Modifier}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs18\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4908\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5880\row }\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4908\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5880\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Has a stronghold, base of operations, guildhouse, or the like}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 +2}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4908\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5880\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Moves around a lot }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 
\endash 1}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4908\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5880\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4908\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5880\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20\cf0 Caused the death of other followers }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \endash 1.}{\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4908\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5880\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\cf0 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trrh210\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvmgf\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1368 \cellx1260\clvmgf\clvertalt\clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth900 \cellx2160\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrnone \clbrdrb\brdrnone \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3795 \cellx5955\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0 
\b\fs17\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Leadership Score}{\fs18 \cell }\pard \s2\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Cohort Level}{\fs18 \cell }{\fs20 \emdash \emdash 
 Number of Followers by Level \emdash \emdash }{\b0\fs18 \cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs18\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trrh210\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvmgf\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1368 \cellx1260\clvmgf\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth900 \cellx2160\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrnone \clbrdrb\brdrnone \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3795 \cellx5955\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trrh210\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvmrg\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1368 \cellx1260\clvmrg\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth900 \cellx2160\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrnone \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx2792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrnone \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx3425\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrnone \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx4057\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrnone \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx4690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrnone \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx5322\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrnone \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx5955\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0 
\b\fs17\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs18 \cell }\pard \s2\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0 {\fs18 \cell }\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 
\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 1st}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 2nd}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 3rd}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 4th}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 5th}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{
\b\fs20\cf0 6th}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18 \trowd \trgaph108\trrh210\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvmrg\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1368 \cellx1260\clvmrg\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth900 \cellx2160\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrnone \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx2792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrnone \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx3425\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrnone \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx4057
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrnone \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx4690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrnone \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx5322\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrnone \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx5955\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1368 \cellx1260\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth900 \cellx2160\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx2792\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx3425\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx4057\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx4690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx5322\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx5955\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 1 or lower}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell 
}{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1368 \cellx1260\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth900 \cellx2160\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx2792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 
\cellx3425\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx4057\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx4690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx5322\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx5955\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 2}{\fs18\cf0 \cell 
}\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 1st}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 
\emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1368 \cellx1260\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth900 \cellx2160\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx2792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx3425\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx4057\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx4690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx5322\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx5955\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 3}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 2nd}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{
\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1368 \cellx1260\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth900 \cellx2160\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx2792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx3425\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx4057\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx4690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx5322\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx5955\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 4}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 3rd}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{
\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1368 \cellx1260\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth900 \cellx2160\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx2792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx3425\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx4057\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx4690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx5322\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx5955\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 5}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 3rd}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{
\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1368 \cellx1260\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth900 \cellx2160\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx2792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx3425\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx4057\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx4690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx5322\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx5955\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 6}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 4th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{
\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1368 \cellx1260\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth900 \cellx2160\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx2792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx3425\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx4057\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx4690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx5322\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx5955\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 7}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 5th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{
\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1368 \cellx1260\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth900 \cellx2160\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx2792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx3425\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx4057\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx4690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx5322\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx5955\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 8}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 5th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{
\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1368 \cellx1260\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth900 \cellx2160\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx2792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx3425\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx4057\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx4690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx5322\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx5955\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 9}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 6th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{
\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1368 \cellx1260\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth900 \cellx2160\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx2792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx3425\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx4057\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx4690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx5322\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx5955\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 10}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 7th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 5}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{
\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1368 \cellx1260\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth900 \cellx2160\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx2792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx3425\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx4057\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx4690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx5322\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx5955\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 11}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 7th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 6}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{
\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1368 \cellx1260\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth900 \cellx2160\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx2792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx3425\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx4057\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx4690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx5322\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx5955\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 12}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 8th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 8}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{
\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1368 \cellx1260\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth900 \cellx2160\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx2792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx3425\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx4057\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx4690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx5322\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx5955\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 13}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 9th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 10}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 1}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 
\cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1368 \cellx1260\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth900 \cellx2160\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx2792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx3425\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 
\cellx4057\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx4690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx5322\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx5955\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 14}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 10th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 15}{
\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 1}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1368 \cellx1260\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth900 \cellx2160\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 
\cellx2792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx3425\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx4057\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx4690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx5322\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 
\cellx5955\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 15}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 10th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 20}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 2}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{
\fs20\cf0 1}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1368 \cellx1260\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth900 \cellx2160\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx2792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 
\cellx3425\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx4057\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx4690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx5322\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx5955\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 16}{\fs18\cf0 \cell 
}\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 11th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 25}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 2}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 1}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 
\cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1368 \cellx1260\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth900 \cellx2160\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx2792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx3425\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 
\cellx4057\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx4690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx5322\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx5955\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 17}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 12th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 30}{
\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 3}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 1}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 1}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1368 \cellx1260\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth900 \cellx2160\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 
\cellx2792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx3425\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx4057\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx4690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx5322\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 
\cellx5955\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 18}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 12th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 35}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 3}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{
\fs20\cf0 1}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 1}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1368 \cellx1260\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth900 \cellx2160\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx2792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 
\cellx3425\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx4057\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx4690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx5322\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx5955\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 19}{\fs18\cf0 \cell 
}\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 13th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 40}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 4}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 2}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 1}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 1}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{
\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1368 \cellx1260\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth900 \cellx2160\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx2792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx3425\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx4057\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx4690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx5322\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx5955\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 20}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 14th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 50}{\fs18\cf0 \cell 
}{\fs20\cf0 5}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 3}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 2}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 1}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 
\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1368 \cellx1260\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth900 \cellx2160\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx2792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx3425\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx4057\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx4690\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx5322\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx5955\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20\cf0 21}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 15th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 60}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 6}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 3}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 2}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 
1}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 1}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1368 \cellx1260\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth900 \cellx2160\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx2792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx3425\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx4057\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx4690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx5322\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx5955\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 22}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 15th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 75}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 7}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 4}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 2}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 2}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 1}{
\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1368 \cellx1260\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth900 \cellx2160\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx2792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx3425\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx4057\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx4690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx5322\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx5955\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 23}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 16th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 90}{\fs18\cf0 \cell 
}{\fs20\cf0 9}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 5}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 3}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 2}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 1}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1368 \cellx1260\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth900 \cellx2160\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx2792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 
\cellx3425\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx4057\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx4690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx5322\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx5955\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 24}{\fs18\cf0 \cell 
}\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 17th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 110}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 11}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 6}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 3}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 2}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{
\fs20\cf0 1}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1368 \cellx1260\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth900 \cellx2160\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx2792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx3425\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx4057\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx4690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx5322\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx5955\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1368 \cellx1260\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth900 \cellx2160\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx2792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx3425\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx4057\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx4690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx5322\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx5955\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 25 or higher}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 17th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 135}{\fs18\cf0 
\cell }{\fs20\cf0 13}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 7}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 4}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 2}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 2}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 
\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1368 \cellx1260\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth900 \cellx2160\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx2792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx3425\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx4057\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx4690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth632 \cellx5322\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth633 \cellx5955\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\i\fs20\cf0 
\par Leadership Score: }{\fs20\cf0 A character\rquote s base Leadership score equals 
his level plus any Charisma modifier. In order to take into account negative Charisma modifiers, this table allows for very low Leadership scores, but the character must still be 6th level or higher in order to gain the Leadership feat. Outside factors ca
n affect a character\rquote s Leadership score, as detailed above.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\i\fs20\cf0 Cohort Level: }{\fs20\cf0 The character can attract a cohort of up to this level. Regardless of a character\rquote 
s Leadership score, he can only recruit a cohort who is two or more levels lower than himself. The co
hort should be equipped with gear appropriate for its level. A character can try to attract a cohort of a particular race, class, and alignment. The cohort\rquote s alignment may not be opposed to the leader\rquote 
s alignment on either the law-vs-chaos or good-vs-evil axis, and the leader takes a Leadership penalty if he recruits a cohort of an alignment different from his own.
\par Cohorts earn XP as follows:
\par The cohort does not count as a party member when determining the party\rquote s XP.
\par Divide the cohort\rquote s level by the level of the PC with whom he or she is associated (the character with the Leadership feat who attracted the cohort).
\par Multiply this result by the total XP awarded to the PC and add that number of experience points to the cohort\rquote s total.
\par If a cohort gains enough XP to bring it to a level one lower than the associated PC\rquote s character level, the cohort does not gain the new level\emdash its new XP total is 1 less than the amount needed attain the next level. 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Number of Followers by Level: }{\fs20\cf0 The character can lead up to the indicated number of characters of each level. Followers are similar to cohorts, except they\rquote re generally low-level NPCs. Because they\rquote 
re generally five or more levels behind the character they follow, they\rquote re rarely effective in combat.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\cf0 Followers don\rquote t earn experience and thus don\rquote 
t gain levels. However, when a character with Leadership attains a new level, the player consults the table above to determine if she has acquired more followers, some of which may be higher level than the existing followers. (You don\rquote 
t consult the table to see if your cohort gains levels, however, because cohorts earn experience on their own.)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\cf0 
\par LIGHTNING REFLEXES }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You get a +2 bonus on all Reflex saving throws.
\par }{\cf0 
\par MAGICAL APTITUDE }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You get a +2 bonus on all Spellcraft checks and Use Magic Device checks.
\par }{\cf0 
\par MANYSHOT }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisites:}{\fs20\cf0  Dex 17, Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot, base attack bonus +6
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  As a standard action, you may fire two arrows at a single opponent within 30 feet. Both arrows use the same attack roll (with a \endash 4 penalty) to determine success and deal damage normally (but see Special).
\par For every five points of base attack bonus you have above +6, you may add one additional arrow to this attack, to a maximum of four arrows at a base attack bonus of +16. However, each arrow after the second adds a cumulative \endash 
2 penalty on the attack roll (for a total penalty of \endash 6 for three arrows and \endash 8 for four).
\par Damage reduction and other resistances apply separately against each arrow fired.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  Regardless of the number of arrows you fire, you apply precision-based damage only once. If you score a critical hit, only the first arrow fired deals critical damage; all others deal regular damage.
\par A fighter may select Manyshot as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par A 6th-level ranger who has chosen the archery combat style is treated as having Manyshot even if he does not have the prerequisites for it, but only when he is wearing light or no armor.
\par }{\cf0 
\par MARTIAL WEAPON PROFICIENCY }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par Choose a type of martial weapon. You understand how to use that type of martial weapon in combat.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You make attack rolls with the selected weapon normally.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Normal:}{\fs20\cf0  When using a weapon with which you are not proficient, you take a \endash 4 penalty on attack rolls.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  Barbarians, fighters, paladins, and rangers are proficient with all martial weapons. They need not select this feat.
\par You can gain Martial Weapon Proficiency multiple times. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new type of weapon. 
\par A cleric who chooses the War domain automatically gains the Martial Weapon Proficiency feat related to his deity\rquote s favored weapon as a bonus feat, if the weapon is a martial one. He need not select it.
\par }{\cf0 
\par MAXIMIZE SPELL }{\fs20\cf0 [METAMAGIC]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  All variable, numeric effects of a spell modified by this feat are maximized. Saving throws and opposed rolls are not affected, nor are spells without 
random variables. A maximized spell uses up a spell slot three levels higher than the spell\rquote s actual level.
\par An empowered, maximized spell gains the separate benefits of each feat: the maximum result plus one-half the normally rolled result.
\par }{\cf0 
\par MOBILITY }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisites:}{\fs20\cf0  Dex 13, Dodge.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You get a +4 dodge bonus to Armor Class against attacks of opportunity caused when you move out of or within a threatened area. A condition that makes you lose your Dexterity bonus to Armor Class (if any) also ma
kes you lose dodge bonuses.
\par Dodge bonuses stack with each other, unlike most types of bonuses.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  A fighter may select Mobility as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par }{\cf0 
\par MOUNTED ARCHERY }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisites:}{\fs20\cf0  Ride 1 rank, Mounted Combat.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  The penalty you take when using a ranged weapon while mounted is halved: \endash 2 instead of \endash 4 if your mount is taking a double move, and \endash 4 instead of \endash 8 if your mount is running.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  A fighter may select Mounted Archery as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par }{\cf0 
\par MOUNTED COMBAT }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisite:}{\fs20\cf0  Ride 1 rank.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  Once per round when your mount is hit in combat, you may attempt a Ride check (as a reaction) to negate the hit. The hit is negated if your Ride check result is greater than the opponent\rquote s attack roll
. (Essentially, the Ride check result becomes the mount\rquote s Armor Class if it\rquote s higher than the mount\rquote s regular AC.)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  A fighter may select Mounted Combat as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par }{\cf0 
\par NATURAL SPELL }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisites: }{\fs20\cf0 Wis 13, wild shape ability.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You can complete the verbal and somatic components of spells while in a wild shape. You substitute various noises and gestures for the normal verbal and somatic components of a spell.
\par You can also use any material components or focuses you 
possess, even if such items are melded within your current form. This feat does not permit the use of magic items while you are in a form that could not ordinarily use them, and you do not gain the ability to speak while in a wild shape.
\par }{\cf0 
\par NEGOTIATOR }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You get a +2 bonus on all Diplomacy checks and Sense Motive checks.
\par }{\cf0 
\par NIMBLE FINGERS }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You get a +2 bonus on all Disable Device checks and Open Lock checks.
\par }{\cf0 
\par PERSUASIVE }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You get a +2 bonus on all Bluff checks and Intimidate checks.
\par }{\cf0 
\par POINT BLANK SHOT }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You get a +1 bonus on attack and damage rolls with ranged weapons at ranges of up to 30 feet.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  A fighter may select Point Blank Shot as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par }{\cf0 
\par POWER ATTACK }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisite:}{\fs20\cf0  Str 13.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  On your action, before making attack rolls for a round, you may choose to subtract a number from all melee attack rolls and add the same number to all melee damage rolls. This numbe
r may not exceed your base attack bonus. The penalty on attacks and bonus on damage apply until your next turn.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  If you attack with a two-handed weapon, or with a one-handed weapon wielded in two hands, instead add twice the number subtracted from your attack rolls. You can\rquote 
t add the bonus from Power Attack to the damage dealt with a light weapon (except with unarmed strikes or natural weapon attacks), even though the penalty on attack rolls still applies. (Normally, you treat a double weapon as a o
ne-handed weapon and a light weapon. If you choose to use a double weapon like a two-handed weapon, attacking with only one end of it in a round, you treat it as a two-handed weapon.)
\par A fighter may select Power Attack as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par }{\cf0 
\par PRECISE SHOT }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisite:}{\fs20\cf0  Point Blank Shot.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You can shoot or throw ranged weapons at an opponent engaged in melee without taking the standard \endash 4 penalty on your attack roll.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  A fighter may select Precise Shot as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par }{\cf0 
\par QUICK DRAW }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisite:}{\fs20\cf0  Base attack bonus +1.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You can draw a weapon as a free action instead of as a move action. You can draw a hidden weapon (see the Sleight of Hand skill) as a move action.
\par A character who has selected this feat may throw weapons at his full normal rate of attacks (much like a character with a bow).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Normal: }{\fs20\cf0 Without this feat, you may draw a weapon as a move action, or (if your base attack bonus is +1 or higher) as a free action as part of movement. Without this feat, you can draw a hidden weapon as a standard action.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  A fighter may select Quick Draw as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par }{\cf0 
\par QUICKEN SPELL }{\fs20\cf0 [METAMAGIC]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  
Casting a quickened spell is a free action. You can perform another action, even casting another spell, in the same round as you cast a quickened spell. You may cast only one quickened spell per round. A spell whose casting time is more than 1 full round 
action cannot be quickened. A quickened spell uses up a spell slot four levels higher than the spell\rquote s actual level. Casting a quickened spell doesn\rquote t provoke an attack of opportunity.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  This feat can\rquote t be applied to any spell cast spontaneously (inc
luding sorcerer spells, bard spells, and cleric or druid spells cast spontaneously), since applying a metamagic feat to a spontaneously cast spell automatically increases the casting time to a full-round action.
\par }{\cf0 
\par RAPID RELOAD }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par Choose a type of crossbow (hand, light, or heavy).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisite:}{\fs20\cf0  Weapon Proficiency (crossbow type chosen).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  The time required for you to reload your chosen type of crossbow is reduced to a free action (for a hand or light crossbow) or a move action (for a heavy cross
bow). Reloading a crossbow still provokes an attack of opportunity.
\par If you have selected this feat for hand crossbow or light crossbow, you may fire that weapon as many times in a full attack action as you could attack if you were using a bow.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Normal:}{\fs20\cf0  A character without this feat needs a move action to reload a hand or light crossbow, or a full-round action to reload a heavy crossbow. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  You can gain Rapid Reload multiple times. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new type of crossbow.
\par A fighter may select Rapid Reload as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par }{\cf0 
\par RAPID SHOT }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisites:}{\fs20\cf0  Dex 13, Point Blank Shot.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You can get one extra attack per round with a ranged weapon. The attack is at your highest base attack bonus, but each attack you make in that round (the extra one and the normal ones) takes a \endash 
2 penalty. You must use the full attack action to use this feat.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  A fighter may select Rapid Shot as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par A 2nd-level ranger who has chosen the archery combat style is treated as having Rapid Shot, even if he does not have the prerequisites for it, but only when he is wearing light or no armor.
\par }{\cf0 
\par RIDE-BY ATTACK }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisites:}{\fs20\cf0  Ride 1 rank, Mounted Combat.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  When you are mounted and use the charge action, you may move and attack as if with a standard charge and then move again (continuing the straight line of the charge). Your total movement for the round can\rquote 
t exceed double your mounted speed. You and your mount do not provoke an attack of opportunity from the opponent that you attack.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  A fighter may select Ride-By Attack as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par }{\cf0 
\par RUN }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  When running, you move five times your normal speed (if wearing medium, light, or no armor and carry
ing no more than a medium load) or four times your speed (if wearing heavy armor or carrying a heavy load). If you make a jump after a running start (see the Jump skill description), you gain a +4 bonus on your Jump check. While running, you retain your D
exterity bonus to AC.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Normal:}{\fs20\cf0 
 You move four times your speed while running (if wearing medium, light, or no armor and carrying no more than a medium load) or three times your speed (if wearing heavy armor or carrying a heavy load), and you lose your Dexterity bonus to AC.
\par }{\cf0 
\par SCRIBE SCROLL }{\fs20\cf0 [ITEM CREATION]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisite:}{\fs20\cf0  Caster level 1st.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You can create a scroll of any spell that you know. Scribing a scroll takes one day for each 1,000 gp in its base price. The base price of a scroll is its spell level x \u-4064\'3fits caster level x \u-4064\'3f
25 gp. To scribe a scroll, you must spend 1/25 of this base price in XP and use up raw materials costing one-half of this base price.
\par Any scroll that stores a spell with a costly material component or an XP cost also carries a commensurate cost. In addition to the costs derived from the base price, you must expend the material component or pay the XP when scribing the scroll.
\par }{\cf0 
\par SELF-SUFFICIENT }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You get a +2 bonus on all Heal checks and Survival checks.
\par }{\cf0 
\par SHIELD PROFICIENCY }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You can use a shield and take only the standard penalties.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Normal:}{\fs20\cf0  When you are using a shield with which you are not proficient, you take the shield\rquote s armor check penalty on attack rolls and on all skill checks that involve moving, including Ride checks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  Barbarians, bards, clerics, druids, fighters, paladins, and rangers automatically have Shield Proficiency as a bonus feat. They need not select it.
\par }{\cf0 
\par SHOT ON THE RUN }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisites:}{\fs20\cf0  Dex 13, Dodge, Mobility, Point Blank Shot, base attack bonus +4.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  When using the attack action with a ranged weapon, you can move both before and after the attack, provided that your total distance moved is not greater than your speed.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  A fighter may select Shot on the Run as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par }{\cf0 
\par SILENT SPELL }{\fs20\cf0 [METAMAGIC]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  A silent spell can be cast with no verbal components. Spells without verbal components are not affected. A silent spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell\rquote s actual level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  Bard spells cannot be enhanced by this metamagic feat.
\par }{\cf0 
\par SIMPLE WEAPON PROFICIENCY }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You make attack rolls with simple weapons normally.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Normal:}{\fs20\cf0  When using a weapon with which you are not proficient, you take a \endash 4 penalty on attack rolls.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  All characters except for druids, monks, and wizards are automatically proficient with all simple weapons. They need not select this feat.
\par }{\cf0 
\par SKILL FOCUS }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par Choose a skill.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You get a +3 bonus on all checks involving that skill.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new skill.
\par }{\cf0 
\par SNATCH ARROWS }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisites:}{\fs20\cf0  Dex 15, Deflect Arrows, Improved Unarmed Strike.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  When using the Deflect Arrows feat you may catch the weapon instead of just deflecting it. Thrown weapons can immediately be thrown back at the original attacker (even though it isn\rquote 
t your turn) or kept for later use.
\par You must have at least one hand free (holding nothing) to use this feat.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  A fighter may select Snatch Arrows as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par }{\cf0 
\par SPELL FOCUS }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par Choose a school of magic.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  Add +1 to the Difficulty Class for all saving throws against spells from the school of magic you select.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new school of magic.
\par }{\cf0 
\par SPELL MASTERY }{\fs20\cf0 [SPECIAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisite: }{\fs20\cf0 Wizard level 1st.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  Each time you take this feat, choose a number of spells equal to your Intelligence modifier that you already know. From that point on, you can prepare these spells without referring to a spellbook.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Normal: }{\fs20\cf0 Without this feat, you must use a spellbook to prepare all your spells, except }{\i\fs20\cf0 read magic.
\par }{\cf0 
\par SPELL PENETRATION }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You get a +2 bonus on caster level checks (1d20 + caster level) made to overcome a creature\rquote s spell resistance.
\par }{\cf0 
\par SPIRITED CHARGE }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisites:}{\fs20\cf0  Ride 1 rank, Mounted Combat, Ride-By Attack.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  When mounted and using the charge action, you deal double damage with a melee weapon (or triple damage with a lance).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  A fighter may select Spirited Charge as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par }{\cf0 
\par SPRING ATTACK [}{\fs20\cf0 GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisites:}{\fs20\cf0  Dex 13, Dodge, Mobility, base attack bonus +4.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0 
 When using the attack action with a melee weapon, you can move both before and after the attack, provided that your total distance moved is not greater than your speed. Moving in this way does not provoke an attack of opportunity from the defender
 you attack, though it might provoke attacks of opportunity from other creatures, if appropriate. You can\rquote t use this feat if you are wearing heavy armor.
\par You must move at least 5 feet both before and after you make your attack in order to utilize the benefits of Spring Attack.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  A fighter may select Spring Attack as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par }{\cf0 
\par STEALTHY }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You get a +2 bonus on all Hide checks and Move Silently checks.
\par }{\cf0 
\par STILL SPELL }{\fs20\cf0 [METAMAGIC]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  A stilled spell can be cast with no somatic components.
\par Spells without somatic components are not affected. A stilled spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell\rquote s actual level.
\par }{\cf0 
\par STUNNING FIST }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisites:}{\fs20\cf0  Dex 13, Wis 13, Improved Unarmed Strike, base attack bonus +8.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0 
 You must declare that you are using this feat before you make your attack roll (thus, a failed attack roll ruins the attempt). Stunning Fist forces a foe damaged by your unarmed attack to make a Fortitude saving throw (DC 10 + 1/2 your
 character level + your Wis modifier), in addition to dealing damage normally. A defender who fails this saving throw is stunned for 1 round (until just before your next action). A stunned character can\rquote 
t act, loses any Dexterity bonus to AC, and takes a \endash 
2 penalty to AC. You may attempt a stunning attack once per day for every four levels you have attained (but see Special), and no more than once per round. Constructs, oozes, plants, undead, incorporeal creatures, and creatures immune to critical hits can
not be stunned.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0 
 A monk may select Stunning Fist as a bonus feat at 1st level, even if she does not meet the prerequisites. A monk who selects this feat may attempt a stunning attack a number of times per day equal to her monk level, plus one more t
ime per day for every four levels she has in classes other than monk.
\par A fighter may select Stunning Fist as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par }{\cf0 
\par TOUGHNESS }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You gain +3 hit points.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  A character may gain this feat multiple times. Its effects stack.
\par }{\cf0 
\par TOWER SHIELD PROFICIENCY }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisite:}{\fs20\cf0  Shield Proficiency.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You can use a tower shield and suffer only the standard penalties.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Normal:}{\fs20\cf0  A character who is using a shield with which he or she is not proficient takes the shield\rquote s armor check penalty on attack rolls and on all skill checks that involve moving, including Ride.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  Fighters automatically have Tower Shield Proficiency as a bonus feat. They need not select it.
\par }{\cf0 
\par TRACK }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  To find tracks or to follow them for 1 mile requires a successful Survival check. You must make another Survival check every time the tracks become difficult to follow.
\par You move at half your normal speed (or at your normal speed with a \endash 5 penalty on the check, or at up to twice your normal speed with a \endash 
20 penalty on the check). The DC depends on the surface and the prevailing conditions, as given on the table below:
\par }{\b\fs16\cf0 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1475\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2753
\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4397\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4902\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0 
\b\fs18\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Surface}{\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 Survival DC }{\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 Surface Survival }{\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 DC}{\cf0 \cell }\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1475\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2753\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx4397\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4902\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1475\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2753\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4397\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4902\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Very soft ground }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 5 }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 Firm ground }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 15}{\fs18\cf0 \cell 
}\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1475\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2753\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4397\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4902\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx1475\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2753\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4397\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4902\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Soft ground }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 10 }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 Hard ground }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 20}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1475\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2753\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4397\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4902\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Very Soft Ground: }{\fs20\cf0 Any surface (fresh snow, thick dust, wet mud) that holds deep, clear impressions of footprints.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Soft Ground: }{\fs20\cf0 Any surface soft enough to yield to pressure, but firmer than wet mud or fresh snow, in which a creature leaves frequent but shallow footprints.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Firm Ground: }{\fs20\cf0 Most normal outdoor surfaces (such as lawns, fields, woods, and the like) or exceptionally soft or dirty indoor surfaces (thick rugs and very d
irty or dusty floors). The creature might leave some traces (broken branches or tufts of hair), but it leaves only occasional or partial footprints.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Hard Ground: }{\fs20\cf0 Any surface that doesn\rquote t hold footprints at all, such as bare rock or an indoor floor. Most st
reambeds fall into this category, since any footprints left behind are obscured or washed away. The creature leaves only traces (scuff marks or displaced pebbles). 
\par Several modifiers may apply to the Survival check, as given on the table below.
\par }{\b\fs16\cf0 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4465\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6690
\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0 \b\fs18\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Condition \cell }\pard \s1\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20\cf0 Survival DC Modifier\cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4465\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6690\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4465\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6690\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Every three creatures in the group being tracked }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 1}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4465\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6690\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Size of creature or creatures being tracked:}{
\b\fs20\cf0\super 1}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4465\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx6690\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Fine }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +8}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4465\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6690\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Diminutive }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +4}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4465\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6690\row }\pard 
\ql \fi180\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Tiny }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +2}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 
{\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4465\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6690\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Small }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +1}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4465\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6690\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Medium }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +0}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4465\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6690\row }\pard 
\ql \fi180\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Large }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 1}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4465\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6690\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Huge }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 2}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4465\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6690\row }\pard 
\ql \fi180\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Gargantuan }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 4}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4465\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6690\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Colossal }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 8}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4465\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6690\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Every 24 hours since the trail was made }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +1}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4465\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6690\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Every hour of rain since the trail was made }{
\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +1}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4465\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6690\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Fresh snow cover since the trail was made }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +10}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4465\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6690\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Poor visibility:}{\b\fs20\cf0\super 2}{
\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4465\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6690\row }\pard 
\ql \fi180\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Overcast or moonless night }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +6}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4465\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6690\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Moonlight }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +3}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4465\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6690\row }\pard 
\ql \fi180\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Fog or precipitation }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +3}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4465\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6690\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
Tracked party hides trail (and moves at half speed) }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +5}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4465\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6690\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6690
\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 1 For a group of mixed sizes, apply only the modifier for the largest size category.}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6690\row }\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6690\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
2 Apply only the largest modifier from this category.}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6690\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\cf0 
\par If you fail a Survival check, you can retry after 1 hour (outdoors) or 10 minutes (indoors) of searching.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Normal:}{\fs20\cf0  Without this feat, you can use the Survival skill to find tracks, but you can follow them only if the DC for the task is 10 or lower. Alternat
ively, you can use the Search skill to find a footprint or similar sign of a creature\rquote s passage using the DCs given above, but you can\rquote t use Search to follow tracks, even if someone else has already found them.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  A ranger automatically has Track as a bonus feat. He need not select it.
\par This feat does not allow you to find or follow the tracks made by a subject of a }{\i\fs20\cf0 pass without trace }{\fs20\cf0 spell.
\par }{\cf0 
\par TRAMPLE }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisites:}{\fs20\cf0  Ride 1 rank, Mounted Combat.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0 
 When you attempt to overrun an opponent while mounted, your target may not choose to avoid you. Your mount may make one hoof attack against any target you knock down, gaining the standard +4 bonus on attack rolls against prone targets.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  A fighter may select Trample as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par }{\cf0 
\par TWO-WEAPON DEFENSE }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisites:}{\fs20\cf0  Dex 15, Two-Weapon Fighting.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit: }{\fs20\cf0 When wielding a double weapon or two weapons (not including natural weapons or unarmed strikes), you gain a +1 shield bonus to your AC.
\par When you are fighting defensively or using the total defense action, this shield bonus increases to +2.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  A fighter may select Two-Weapon Defense as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par }{\cf0 
\par TWO-WEAPON FIGHTING }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par You can fight with a weapon in each hand. You can make one extra attack each round with the second weapon.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisite:}{\fs20\cf0  Dex 15.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  Your penalties on attack rolls for fighting with two weapons are reduced. The penalty for your primary hand lessens by 2 and the one for your off hand lessens by 6.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Normal:}{\fs20\cf0  }{\fs20 If you wield a second weapon in your off hand, you can get one extra attack per round with that weapon. When fighting in this way you suffer a \endash 
6 penalty with your regular attack or attacks with your primary hand and a \endash 10 penalty to the attack with your off hand. If your off-hand weapon is light the penalties are reduced by 2 each. (An unarmed strike is always considered light.)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  A 2nd-level ranger who has chosen the two-weapon combat style is treated as having Two-Weapon Fighting, even if he does not have the prerequisite for it, but only when he is wearing light or no armor.
\par A fighter may select Two-Weapon Fighting as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par }{\cf0 
\par WEAPON FINESSE }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisite:}{\fs20\cf0  Base attack bonus +1.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  With a light weapon, rapier, whip, or spiked chain made for a creature of your size category, you may use your Dexterity modifier 
instead of your Strength modifier on attack rolls. If you carry a shield, its armor check penalty applies to your attack rolls.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  A fighter may select Weapon Finesse as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par Natural weapons are always considered light weapons.
\par }{\cf0 
\par WEAPON FOCUS }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par Choose one type of weapon. You can also choose unarmed strike or grapple (or ray, if you are a spellcaster) as your weapon for purposes of this feat.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0  Prerequisites:}{\fs20\cf0  Proficiency with selected weapon, base attack bonus +1.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You gain a +1 bonus on all attack rolls you make using the selected weapon.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new type of weapon.
\par A fighter may select Weapon Focus as one of his fighter bonus feats. He must have Weapon Focus with a weapon to gain the Weapon Specialization feat for that weapon.
\par }{\cf0 
\par WEAPON SPECIALIZATION }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par Choose one type of weapon for which you have already selected the Weapon Focus feat. You can also choose unarmed strike or grapple as your weapon for purposes of this feat. You deal extra damage when using this weapon.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0  Prerequisites:}{\fs20\cf0  Proficiency with selected weapon, Weapon Focus with selected weapon, fighter level 4th.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You gain a +2 bonus on all damage rolls you make using the selected weapon.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new type of weapon.
\par A fighter may select Weapon Specialization as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par }{\cf0 
\par WHIRLWIND ATTACK }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisites:}{\fs20\cf0  Dex 13, Int 13, Combat Expertise, Dodge, Mobility, Spring Attack, base attack bonus +4.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  When you use the full attack action, you can give up your regular attacks and instead make one melee attack at your full base attack bonus against each opponent within reach.
\par When you use the Whirlwind Attack feat, you also forfeit any bonus or extra attacks granted by other feats, spells, or abilities.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  A fighter may select Whirlwind Attack as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par }{\cf0 
\par WIDEN SPELL }{\fs20\cf0 [METAMAGIC]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  You can alter a burst, emanation, line, or spread shaped spell to increase its area. Any numeric measurements of the spell\rquote s area increase by 100%.A wid
ened spell uses up a spell slot three levels higher than the spell\rquote s actual level.
\par }{\fs20 Spells that do not have an area of one of these four sorts are not affected by this feat.
\par }}