{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New{\*\falt Courier};}{\f88\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial Unicode MS;}{\f111\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}@Arial Unicode MS;}
{\f117\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f118\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f120\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f121\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f122\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f123\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f124\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f125\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f126\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f128\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f129\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}
{\f130\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}{\f131\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f132\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f133\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f134\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr{\*\falt Courier};}{\f136\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek{\*\falt Courier};}{\f137\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f138\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier};}{\f139\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic){\*\falt Courier};}{\f140\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f823\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Western;}{\f821\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS CE;}{\f822\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Cyr;}{\f824\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Greek;}
{\f825\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Tur;}{\f826\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Hebrew);}{\f827\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Arabic);}{\f828\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Baltic;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}
{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs37\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{\*\cs10 
\additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\cs15 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f88\hich\af88\dbch\af88\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Normal (Web);}{\s17\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\v\fs16\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f1\hich\af1\dbch\af88\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \shidden HTML Top of Form;}{\s18\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\v\fs16\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f1\hich\af1\dbch\af88\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \shidden HTML Bottom of Form;}{\s19\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext19 Body Text;}{\s20\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext20 
Preformatted;}}{\info{\title efore setting out on a dangerous journey with her companions,}{\author AKSmith}{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2003\mo5\dy7\hr11\min53}{\revtim\yr2003\mo7\dy2\hr14\min30}{\version174}{\edmins224}{\nofpages13}{\nofwords9647}
{\nofchars54990}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws67531}{\vern8283}}\margl1080\margr1080\margt1080\margb1080 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180
\dgvspace180\dghorigin1080\dgvorigin1080\dghshow1\dgvshow1\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s20\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{\f0\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs37\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs36 MAGIC OVERVIEW
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 
\par A spell is a one-time
 magical effect. Spells come in two types: arcane (cast by bards, sorcerers, and wizards) and divine (cast by clerics, druids, and experienced paladins and rangers). Some spellcasters select their spells from a limited list of spells known, while others h
ave access to a wide variety of options.
\par Most spellcasters prepare their spells in advance\emdash whether from a spellbook or through devout prayers and meditation\emdash  while some cast spells spontaneously without preparation.
\par Despite these different ways that characters use to learn or prepare their spells, when it comes to casting them, the spells are very much alike.
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
Cutting across the categories of arcane and divine spells are the eight schools of magic. These schools represent the different ways that spells take effect.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs36\cf0 
\par CASTING SPELLS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Whether a spell is arcane or divine, and whether a character prepares spells in advance or chooses them on the spot, casting a spell works the same way.
\par }{\cf0 
\par CHOOSING A SPELL
\par }{\fs20\cf0 First you must choose which spell to cast. If you\rquote re a cleric,
 druid, experienced paladin, experienced ranger, or wizard, you select from among spells prepared earlier in the day and not yet cast (see Preparing Wizard Spells and Preparing Divine Spells).
\par If you\rquote re a bard or sorcerer, you can select any spell you know, provided you are capable of casting spells of that level or higher.
\par To cast a spell, you must be able to speak (if the spell has a verbal component), gesture (if it has a somatic component), and manipulate the material components or focus (if any). Additionally, you must concentrate to cast a spell.
\par If a spell has multiple versions, you choose which version to use when you cast it. You don\rquote t have to prepare (or learn, in the case of a bard or sorcerer) a specific version of the spell.
\par Once you\rquote ve cast a prepared spell, you can\rquote t cast it again until you prepare it again. (If you\rquote ve prepared multiple copies of a single spell, you can cast each copy once.) If you\rquote 
re a bard or sorcerer, casting a spell counts against your daily limit for spells of that spell level, but you can cast the same spell again if you haven\rquote t reached your limit.
\par }{\cf0 
\par CONCENTRATION
\par }{\fs20\cf0 To cast a spell, you must concentrate. If something interrupts your concentration while you\rquote re casting, you must make a Concentration check or lose the spell. The
 more distracting the interruption and the higher the level of the spell you are trying to cast, the higher the DC is. If you fail the check, you lose the spell just as if you had cast it to no effect.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Injury:}{\fs20\cf0  If while trying to cast a spell you take damage, you must make a Concentration check (DC 10 + points of damage taken + the level of the spell you\rquote 
re casting). If you fail the check, you lose the spell without effect. The interrupting event strikes during spellcasting if it comes between when you start
 and when you complete a spell (for a spell with a casting time of 1 full round or more) or if it comes in response to your casting the spell (such as an attack of opportunity provoked by the spell or a contingent attack, such as a readied action).
\par If you are taking continuous damage half the damage is considered to take place while you are casting a spell. You must make a Concentration check (DC 10 + 1/2 the damage that the continuous source last dealt + the level of the spell you\rquote 
re casting). If the last damage dealt was the last damage that the effect could deal then the damage is over, and it does not distract you.
\par Repeated damage does not count as continuous damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell: }{\fs20\cf0 If you are affected by a spell while att
empting to cast a spell of your own, you must make a Concentration check or lose the spell you are casting. If the spell affecting you deals damage, the DC is 10 + points of damage + the level of the spell you\rquote re casting.
\par If the spell interferes with you or distracts you in some other way, the DC is the spell\rquote s saving throw DC + the level of the spell you\rquote re casting. For a spell with no saving throw, it\rquote s the DC that the spell\rquote 
s saving throw would have if a save were allowed.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Grappling or Pinned:}{\fs20\cf0  The only s
pells you can cast while grappling or pinned are those without somatic components and whose material components (if any) you have in hand. Even so, you must make a Concentration check (DC 20 + the level of the spell you\rquote 
re casting) or lose the spell.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Vigorous Motion:}{\fs20\cf0 
 If you are riding on a moving mount, taking a bouncy ride in a wagon, on a small boat in rough water, below-decks in a storm-tossed ship, or simply being jostled in a similar fashion, you must make a Concentration check (DC 10 + the level of th
e spell you\rquote re casting) or lose the spell. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Violent Motion: }{\fs20\cf0 If you are on a galloping horse, taking a very rough ride in a wagon, on a small boat in rapids or in a storm, on deck in a storm-tossed ship, or being tossed roughly about in a similar fashion, y
ou must make a Concentration check (DC 15 + the level of the spell you\rquote re casting) or lose the spell.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Violent Weather: }{\fs20\cf0 You must make a Concentration check if you try to cast a spell in violent weather. If you are in a high wind carrying blinding rain or sleet, the DC is 5 + the level of the spell you\rquote 
re casting. If you are in wind-driven hail, dust, or debris, the DC is 10 + the level of the spell you\rquote re casting. In either case, you lose the spell if you fail the Concentration check. If the weather is cause
d by a spell, use the rules in the Spell subsection above.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Defensively:}{\fs20\cf0  If you want to cast a spell without provoking any attacks of opportunity, you must make a Concentration check (DC 15 + the level of the spell you\rquote re casting) to succeed. You lose the spell if you fail.

\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Entangled:}{\fs20\cf0  If you want to cast a spell while entangled in a net or by a tanglefoot bag or while you\rquote 
re affected by a spell with similar effects, you must make a DC 15 Concentration check to cast the spell. You lose the spell if you fail.
\par }{\cf0 
\par COUNTERSPELLS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 It is possible to cast any spell as a counterspell. By doing so, you are using the spell\rquote s energy to disrupt the casting of the same spell by another character. Counterspelling works even if one spell is divine and the other arcane.

\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 How Counterspells Work: }{\fs20\cf0 
To use a counterspell, you must select an opponent as the target of the counterspell. You do this by choosing the ready action. In doing so, you elect to wait to complete your action until your opponent tries to cast a spell. (You m
ay still move your speed, since ready is a standard action.)
\par If the target of your counterspell tries to cast a spell, make a Spellcraft check (DC 15 + the spell\rquote s level). This check is a free action. If the check succeeds, you correctly identify the opponent\rquote 
s spell and can attempt to counter it. If the check fails, you can\rquote t do either of these things.
\par To complete the action, you must then cast the correct spell. As a general rule, a spell can only counter itself. If you are able to cast the same spell and
 you have it prepared (if you prepare spells), you cast it, altering it slightly to create a counterspell effect. If the target is within range, both spells automatically negate each other with no other results.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Counterspelling Metamagic Spells:}{\fs20\cf0  Metamagic feats are not taken into account when determining whether a spell can be countered
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Specific Exceptions:}{\fs20\cf0  Some spells specifically counter each other, especially when they have diametrically opposed effects.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Dispel Magic }{\b\fs20\cf0 as a Counterspell:}{\fs20\cf0  You can use }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel magic }{\fs20\cf0 to counterspell another spellcaster, and you don\rquote t need to identify the spell he or she is casting. However, }{\i\fs20\cf0 
dispel magic }{\fs20\cf0 doesn\rquote t always work as a counterspell (see the spell description).
\par }{\cf0 
\par CASTER LEVEL
\par }{\fs20\cf0 A spell\rquote s power often depends on its caster level, which for most spellcasting characters is equal to your class level in the class you\rquote re using to cast the spell. 
\par You can cast a spell at a lower caster level than normal, but the caster level you choose must be high enough for you to cast the spell in question, and all level-dependent features must be based on the same caster level. 
\par In the event that a class feature, domain granted power, or other special ability provides an adjustment to your caster level, that adjustment applies not only to effects
 based on caster level (such as range, duration, and damage dealt) but also to your caster level check to overcome your target\rquote s spell resistance and to the caster level used in dispel checks (both the dispel check and the DC of the check). 
\par 
\par }{\cf0 SPELL FAILURE
\par }{\fs20\cf0 If you ever try to cast a spell in conditions where the characteristics of the spell cannot be made to conform, the casting fails and the spell is wasted.
\par Spells also fail if your concentration is broken and might fail if you\rquote re wearing armor while casting a spell with somatic components.
\par }{\cf0 
\par THE SPELL\rquote S RESULT
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Once you know which creatures (or objects or areas) are affected, and whether those creatures have made successful saving throws (if any were allowed), you can apply whatever results a spell entails.
\par }{\cf0 
\par SPECIAL SPELL EFFECTS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Many special spell effects are handled according to the school of the spells in question Certain other special spell features are found across spell schools.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Attacks:}{\fs20\cf0  Some spell descriptions refer to attacking. All offensive combat actions, even those that don\rquote 
t damage opponents are considered attacks. Attempts to turn or rebuke undead count as attacks. All spells that opponents resist with saving throws, that deal damage, or that otherwise harm or hamper subjects are attacks. Spells t
hat summon monsters or other allies are not attacks because the spells themselves don\rquote t harm anyone.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bonus Types:}{\fs20\cf0  Usually, a bonus has a type that indicates how the spell grants the bonus. The important aspect of bonus types is that two bonuses of the same type don\rquote 
t generally stack. With the exception of dodge bonuses, most circumstance bonuses, and racial bonuses, only the better bonus works (see Combining Magical Effects, below). The same principle applies to penalties\emdash a character taking two or more pena
lties of the same type applies only the worst one.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bringing Back the Dead:}{\fs20\cf0  Several spells have the power to restore slain characters to life.
\par When a living creature dies, its soul departs its body, leaves the Material Plane, travels through the Astral Plane, and goes to abide on the plane where the creature\rquote 
s deity resides. If the creature did not worship a deity, its soul departs to the plane corresponding to its alignment. Bringing someone back from the dead means retrieving his or her soul and returning it to his or her body.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Level Loss: }{\fs20\cf0 Any creature brought back to life usually loses one level of experience. The character\rquote s new XP total is mi
dway between the minimum needed for his or her new (reduced) level and the minimum needed for the next one. If the character was 1st level at the time of death, he or she loses 2 points of Constitution instead of losing a level.
\par This level loss or Constitution loss cannot be repaired by any mortal means, even }{\i\fs20\cf0 wish }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 miracle. }{\fs20\cf0 
A revived character can regain a lost level by earning XP through further adventuring. A revived character who was 1st level at the time of death can regain lost points of Constitution
 by improving his or her Constitution score when he or she attains a level that allows an ability score increase.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Preventing Revivification: }{\fs20\cf0 Enemies can take steps to make it more difficult for a character to be returned from the dead. Keeping the body prevents others from using }{\i\fs20\cf0 raise dead }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 
resurrection }{\fs20\cf0 to restore the slain character to life. Casting }{\i\fs20\cf0 trap the soul }{\fs20\cf0 prevents any sort of revivification unless the soul is first released.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Revivification against One\rquote s Will: }{\fs20\cf0 A soul cannot be returned to life if 
it does not wish to be. A soul knows the name, alignment, and patron deity (if any) of the character attempting to revive it and may refuse to return on that basis.
\par }{\cf0 
\par COMBINING MAGICAL EFFECTS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Spells or magical effects usually work as described, no matter h
ow many other spells or magical effects happen to be operating in the same area or on the same recipient. Except in special cases, a spell does not affect the way another spell operates. Whenever a spell has a specific effect on other spells, the spell de
scription explains that effect. Several other general rules apply when spells or magical effects operate in the same place:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Stacking Effects:}{\fs20\cf0  Spells that provide bonuses or penalties on attack rolls, damage rolls, saving throws, and other attributes usually do not stack with themselves. More generally, two bonuses of the same type don\rquote 
t stack even if they come from different spells (or from effects other than spells; see Bonus Types, above). 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Different Bonus Names: }{\fs20\cf0 The bonuses or penalties from two different spells stack if the modifiers are of different types. A bonus that isn\rquote t named stacks with any bonus.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Same Effect More than Once in Different Strengths: }{\fs20\cf0 In cases when two or more identical spells are operating in the same area or on the same target, but at different strengths, only the best one applies.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Same Effect with Differing Results: }{\fs20\cf0 The same spell can sometimes produce varying effects if applied to the same recipient more than once. Usually the last spell in the series trumps the others. None of the 
previous spells are actually removed or dispelled, but their effects become irrelevant while the final spell in the series lasts.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 One Effect Makes Another Irrelevant: }{\fs20\cf0 Sometimes, one spell can render a later spell irrelevant. Both spells are still active, but one has rendered the other useless in some fashion.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Multiple Mental Control Effects: }{\fs20\cf0 Sometimes magical effects that establish mental control render each other irrelevant, such as a spell that removes the subjects ability to act. Mental controls that don\rquote 
t remove the recipient\rquote 
s ability to act usually do not interfere with each other. If a creature is under the mental control of two or more creatures, it tends to obey each to the best of its ability, and to the extent of the control each effect allows. If
 the controlled creature receives conflicting orders simultaneously, the competing controllers must make opposed Charisma checks to determine which one the creature obeys.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spells with Opposite Effects:}{\fs20\cf0  Spells with opposite effects apply normally, with all 
bonuses, penalties, or changes accruing in the order that they apply. Some spells negate or counter each other. This is a special effect that is noted in a spell\rquote s description. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Instantaneous Effects:}{\fs20\cf0  Two or more spells with instantaneous durations work cumulatively when they affect the same target.
\par }{\fs36\cf0 
\par SPELL DESCRIPTIONS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 The description of each spell is presented in a standard format. Each category of information is explained and defined below.
\par }{\cf0 NAME
\par }{\fs20\cf0 The first line of every spell description gives the name by which the spell is generally known.
\par }{\cf0 SCHOOL (SUBSCHOOL)
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Beneath the spell name is a line giving the school of magic (and the subschool, if appropriate) that the spell belongs to.
\par Almost every spell belongs to one of eight schools of magic. A school of magic is a group of related spells that work in similar ways. A small number of spells (}{\i\fs20\cf0 arcane mark, limited wish, permanency, prestidigitation, }{\fs20\cf0 and }{
\i\fs20\cf0 wish}{\fs20\cf0 ) are universal, belonging to no school.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 
Abjurations are protective spells. They create physical or magical barriers, negate magical or physical abilities, harm trespassers, or even banish the subject of the spell to another plane of existence. }{\i\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\fs20\cf0 If one abjuration spell is active within 10 feet of another for 24 hours or more, the magical fields interfere with each other and create barely visible energy fluctuations. The DC to find such spells with the Search skill drops by 4.
\par If an abjuration creates a barrier that keeps cer
tain types of creatures at bay, that barrier cannot be used to push away those creatures. If you force the barrier against such a creature, you feel a discernible pressure against the barrier. If you continue to apply pressure, you end the spell.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 
Each conjuration spell belongs to one of five subschools. Conjurations bring manifestations of objects, creatures, or some form of energy to you (the summoning subschool), actually transport creatures from another plane of existence to your plane (call
ing), heal (healing), transport creatures or objects over great distances (teleportation), or create objects or effects on the spot (creation). Creatures you conjure usually, but not always, obey your commands.
\par A creature or object brought into being or tr
ansported to your location by a conjuration spell cannot appear inside another creature or object, nor can it appear floating in an empty space. It must arrive in an open location on a surface capable of supporting it.
\par The creature or object must appear within the spell\rquote s range, but it does not have to remain within the range.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Calling:}{\fs20\cf0  A calling spell transports a creature from another plane to the plane you are on. The spell grants the creature the one-time ability to return to its plane of origin, althoug
h the spell may limit the circumstances under which this is possible. Creatures who are called actually die when they are killed; they do not disappear and reform, as do those brought by a summoning spell (see below). The duration of a calling spell is in
stantaneous, which means that the called creature can\rquote t be dispelled.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Creation: }{\fs20\cf0 A creation spell manipulates matter to create an object or creature in the place the spellcaster designates (subject to the limits noted above). If the spell has a duration othe
r than instantaneous, magic holds the creation together, and when the spell ends, the conjured creature or object vanishes without a trace. If the spell has an instantaneous duration, the created object or creature is merely assembled through magic. It la
sts indefinitely and does not depend on magic for its existence.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Healing: }{\fs20\cf0 Certain divine conjurations heal creatures or even bring them back to life.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summoning:}{\fs20\cf0  A summoning spell instantly brings a creature or object to a place you designate. When the spell
 ends or is dispelled, a summoned creature is instantly sent back to where it came from, but a summoned object is not sent back unless the spell description specifically indicates this. A summoned creature also goes away if it is killed or if its hit poin
ts drop to 0 or lower. It is not really dead. It takes 24 hours for the creature to reform, during which time it can\rquote t be summoned again.
\par When the spell that summoned a creature ends and the creature disappears, all the spells it has cast expire. A summoned
 creature cannot use any innate summoning abilities it may have, and it refuses to cast any spells that would cost it XP, or to use any spell-like abilities that would cost XP if they were spells.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Teleportation:}{\fs20\cf0  A teleportation spell transports one or more
 creatures or objects a great distance. The most powerful of these spells can cross planar boundaries. Unlike summoning spells, the transportation is (unless otherwise noted) one-way and not dispellable.
\par Teleportation is instantaneous travel through the Astral Plane. Anything that blocks astral travel also blocks teleportation.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Divination
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 
Divination spells enable you to learn secrets long forgotten, to predict the future, to find hidden things, and to foil deceptive spells.}{\i\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Many divination spells have cone
-shaped areas. These move with you and extend in the direction you look. The cone defines the area that you can sweep each round. If you study the same area for multiple rounds, you can often gain additional information, as noted in the descriptive text f
or the spell.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Scrying:}{\fs20\cf0 
 A scrying spell creates an invisible magical sensor that sends you information. Unless noted otherwise, the sensor has the same powers of sensory acuity that you possess. This level of acuity includes any spells or effects that target
 you, but not spells or effects that emanate from you. However, the sensor is treated as a separate, independent sensory organ of yours, and thus it functions normally even if you have been blinded, deafened, or otherwise suffered sensory impairment.

\par Any creature with an Intelligence score of 12 or higher can notice the sensor by making a DC 20 Intelligence check. The sensor can be dispelled as if it were an active spell.
\par Lead sheeting or magical protection blocks a scrying spell, and you sense that the spell is so blocked.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Enchantment
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Enchantment spells affect the minds of others, influencing or controlling their behavior.}{\i\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\fs20\cf0 All enchantments are mind-affecting spells. Two types of enchantment spells grant you influence over a subject creature.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Charm:}{\fs20\cf0  A charm spell changes how the subject views you, typically making it see you as a good friend.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Compulsion:}{\fs20\cf0  A compulsion spell forces the subject to act in some manner or changes the way her mind works. Some compulsion spells determine the subject\rquote s action
s or the effects on the subject, some compulsion spells allow you to determine the subject\rquote s actions when you cast the spell, and others give you ongoing control over the subject.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Evocation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Evocation spells manipulate energy or tap an unseen source of pow
er to produce a desired end. In effect, they create something out of nothing. Many of these spells produce spectacular effects, and evocation spells can deal large amounts of damage.}{\i\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\fs20\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Illusion
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Illusion spells deceive the senses or minds of others. They cau
se people to see things that are not there, not see things that are there, hear phantom noises, or remember things that never happened.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Figment:}{\fs20\cf0 
 A figment spell creates a false sensation. Those who perceive the figment perceive the same thing, not their own slightly different versions of the figment. (It is not a personalized mental impression.) Figments cannot make something seem to be something
 
else. A figment that includes audible effects cannot duplicate intelligible speech unless the spell description specifically says it can. If intelligible speech is possible, it must be in a language you can speak. If you try to duplicate a language you ca
nnot speak, the image produces gibberish. Likewise, you cannot make a visual copy of something unless you know what it looks like.
\par Because figments and glamers (see below) are unreal, they cannot produce real effects the way that other types of illusions ca
n. They cannot cause damage to objects or creatures, support weight, provide nutrition, or provide protection from the elements. Consequently, these spells are useful for confounding or delaying foes, but useless for attacking them directly. 
\par A figment\rquote s AC is equal to 10 + its size modifier.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Glamer:}{\fs20\cf0  A glamer spell changes a subject\rquote s sensory qualities, making it look, feel, taste, smell, or sound like something else, or even seem to disappear.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Pattern:}{\fs20\cf0  Like a figment, a pattern spell creates an image that others can see, but a pattern also affects the minds of those who see it or are caught in it. All patterns are mind-affecting spells.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Phantasm: }{\fs20\cf0 A phantasm spell creates a mental image that usually only the caster and the subject (or subjects) of the spell 
can perceive. This impression is totally in the minds of the subjects. It is a personalized mental impression. (It\rquote s all in their heads and not a fake picture or something that they actually see.) Third parties viewing or studying the scene don
\rquote t notice the phantasm. All phantasms are mind-affecting spells.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Shadow:}{\fs20\cf0  A shadow spell creates something that is partially real from extradimensional energy. Such illusions can have real effects. Damage dealt by a shadow illusion is real.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throws and Illusions (Disbelief ): }{\fs20\cf0 Creatures encountering an illusion usually do not receive saving throws to recognize it as illusory until they study it carefully or interact with it in some fashion.
\par A successful saving throw against an illusion reveals it to be false, but a figment or phantasm remains as a translucent outline.
\par A failed saving throw indicates that a character fails to notice something is amiss. A character faced with proof that an illusion isn\rquote t real needs no saving throw. If any viewer successfully disbeliev
es an illusion and communicates this fact to others, each such viewer gains a saving throw with a +4 bonus.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Necromancy
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 
Necromancy spells manipulate the power of death, unlife, and the life force. Spells involving undead creatures make up a large part of this school. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Transmutation spells change the properties of some creature, thing, or condition. 
\par }{\cf0 
\par [DESCRIPTOR]
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Appearing on the same line as the school and subschool, when applicable, is a descriptor that further categorizes the spell in some way. Some spells have more than one descriptor.
\par The descriptors are acid, air, chaotic, cold, darkness, death, earth, electricity, evil, fear, fire, force, good, language-dependent, lawful, light, mind-affecting, sonic, and water.
\par Most of these descriptors have no game effect by themselves, but they govern how the spell interacts with other spells, with special abilities, with unusual creatures, with alignment, and so on.
\par A language-dependent spell uses intelligible language as a medium for communication. If the target cannot understand or cannot hear what the caster of a language-dependant spell says the spell fails.
\par A mind-affecting spell works only against creatures with an Intelligence score of 1 or higher.
\par }{\cf0 
\par LEVEL
\par }{\fs20\cf0 The next line of a spell description gives the spell\rquote s level, a number between 0 and 9 that defines the spell\rquote s relative power. This number is preceded by an abbreviation for the class whose members can cast the spell. The L
evel entry also indicates whether a spell is a domain spell and, if so, what its domain and its level as a domain spell are. A spell\rquote s level affects the DC for any save allowed against the effect.
\par Names of spellcasting classes are abbreviated as follows: bard Brd; cleric Clr; druid Drd; paladin Pal; ranger Rgr; sorcerer Sor; wizard Wiz.
\par The domains a spell can be associated with include Air, Animal, Chaos, Death, Destruction, Earth, Evil, Fire, Good, Healing, Knowledge, Law, Luck, Magic, Plant, Protection, Strength, Sun, Travel, Trickery, War, and Water.
\par }{\cf0 
\par COMPONENTS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 A spell\rquote s components are what you must do or possess to cast it. The Components entry in a spell description includes abbreviations that tell you what type of components it has. Specifics for mat
erial, focus, and XP components are given at the end of the descriptive text. Usually you don\rquote t worry about components, but when you can\rquote 
t use a component for some reason or when a material or focus component is expensive, then the components are important.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Verbal (V):}{\fs20\cf0  A verbal component is a spoken incantation. To provide a verbal component, you must be able to speak in a strong voice. A }{\i\fs20\cf0 silence }{\fs20\cf0 
spell or a gag spoils the incantation (and thus the spell). A spellcaster who has been deafened has a 20% chance to spoil any spell with a verbal component that he or she tries to cast.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Somatic (S):}{\fs20\cf0  A somatic component is a measured and precise movement of the hand. You must have at least one hand free to provide a somatic component.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Material (M):}{\fs20\cf0  A material component is one or more physical substances or objects that are annihilated by the spell energies in the casting process. Unless a cost is given for a material component, the cost is negligible. Don
\rquote t bother to keep track of material components with negligible cost. Assume you have all you need as long as you have your spell component pouch.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Focus (F): }{\fs20\cf0 A focus component is a prop of some sort. Unlike a material component, a focus is not consumed when the spell is cast and can be reused. As with material component
s, the cost for a focus is negligible unless a price is given. Assume that focus components of negligible cost are in your spell component pouch.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Divine Focus (DF):}{\fs20\cf0  A divine focus component is an item of spiritual significance. The divine focus for a cleric or a paladin is a holy symbol appropriate to the character\rquote s faith. 
\par If the Components line includes F/DF or M/DF, the arcane version of the spell has a focus component or a material component (the abbreviation before the slash) and the divine version has a divine focus component (the abbreviation after the slash).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 XP Cost (XP):}{\fs20\cf0  Some powerful spells entail an experience point cost to you. No spell can restore the XP lost in this manner. You cannot spend so much XP that you lose a level, so you cannot cast
 the spell unless you have enough XP to spare. However, you may, on gaining enough XP to attain a new level, use those XP for casting a spell rather than keeping them and advancing a level. The XP are treated just like a material component\emdash 
expended when you cast the spell, whether or not the casting succeeds.
\par }{\cf0 
\par CASTING TIME
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Most spells have a casting time of 1 standard action. Others take 1 round or more, while a few require only a free action.
\par A spell that takes 1 round to cast is a full-round action. It comes into effect just before the beginning of your turn in the round after you began casting the spell. You then act normally after the spell is completed.
\par A spell that takes 1 minute to cast comes into effect just before your turn 1 minute later (and for e
ach of those 10 rounds, you are casting a spell as a full-round action, just as noted above for 1- round casting times). These actions must be consecutive and uninterrupted, or the spell automatically fails.
\par When you begin a spell that takes 1 round or longer to cast, you must continue the concentration from the current round to just before your turn in the next round (at least). If you lose concentration before the casting is complete, you lose the spell.

\par A spell with a casting time of 1 free action doesn\rquote t count against your normal limit of one spell per round. However, you may cast such a spell only once per round. Casting a spell with a casting time of 1 free action doesn\rquote 
t provoke attacks of opportunity.
\par You make all pertinent decisions about a spell (range, target, area, effect, version, and so forth) when the spell comes into effect.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 RANGE
\par }{\fs20\cf0 A spell\rquote s range indicates how far from you it can reach, as defined in the Range entry of the spell description. A spell\rquote s range is the maximum distance from you that the spell\rquote 
s effect can occur, as well as the maximum distance at which you can designate the spell\rquote s point of origin. If any portion of the spell\rquote s area would extend beyond this range, that area is wasted. Standard ranges include the following.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Personal:}{\fs20\cf0  The spell affects only you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Touch:}{\fs20\cf0  You must touch a creature or object to affect it. A touch spell that deals damage can score a critical hit just as a weapon can. A touch spell threatens a 
critical hit on a natural roll of 20 and deals double damage on a successful critical hit. Some touch spells allow you to touch multiple targets. You can touch as many willing targets as you can reach as part of the casting, but all targets of the spell m
ust be touched in the same round that you finish casting the spell.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Close:}{\fs20\cf0  The spell reaches as far as 25 feet away from you. The maximum range increases by 5 feet for every two full caster levels.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Medium:}{\fs20\cf0  The spell reaches as far as 100 feet + 10 feet per caster level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Long:}{\fs20\cf0  The spell reaches as far as 400 feet + 40 feet per caster level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Unlimited:}{\fs20\cf0  The spell reaches anywhere on the same plane of existence.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range Expressed in Feet:}{\fs20\cf0  Some spells have no standard range category, just a range expressed in feet.
\par }{\cf0 
\par AIMING A SPELL
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
You must make some choice about whom the spell is to affect or where the effect is to originate, depending on the type of spell. The next entry in a spell description defines the spell\rquote s target (or targets), its effect, or its area, as appropriate.

\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 Target or Targets:}{\fs20\cf0  Some spells}{\i\fs20\cf0  }{\fs20\cf0 
have a target or targets. You cast these spells on creatures or objects, as defined by the spell itself. You must be able to see or touch the target, and you must specifically choose that target. You do not have to 
select your target until you finish casting the spell.
\par If the target of a spell is yourself (the spell description has a line that reads Target: You), you do not receive a saving throw, and spell resistance does not apply. The Saving Throw and Spell Resistance lines are omitted from such spells.
\par Some spells restrict you to willing targets only. Declaring yourself as a willing target is something that can be done at any time (even if you\rquote re flat-footed or it isn\rquote t your turn). Unconscious creatures are automa
tically considered willing, but a character who is conscious but immobile or helpless (such as one who is bound, cowering, grappling, paralyzed, pinned, or stunned) is not automatically willing.
\par Some spells allow you to redirect the effect to new targets or areas after you cast the spell. Redirecting a spell is a move action that does not provoke attacks of opportunity.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  Some spells create or summon things rather than affecting things that are already present.
\par You must designate the location where these things are to appear, either by seeing it or defining it. Range determines how far away an effect can appear, but if the effect is mobile it can move regardless of the spell\rquote s range.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Ray: }{\fs20\cf0 Some effects are rays. You aim a ray as if using a ranged weapon
, though typically you make a ranged touch attack rather than a normal ranged attack. As with a ranged weapon, you can fire into the dark or at an invisible creature and hope you hit something. You don\rquote t have to see the creature you\rquote 
re trying to hit, as you do with a targeted spell. Intervening creatures and obstacles, however, can block your line of sight or provide cover for the creature you\rquote re aiming at.
\par If a ray spell has a duration, it\rquote s the duration of the effect that the ray causes, not the length of time the ray itself persists.
\par If a ray spell deals damage, you can score a critical hit just as if it were a weapon. A ray spell threatens a critical hit on a natural roll of 20 and deals double damage on a successful critical hit.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Spread: }{\fs20\cf0 Some effects, notably clouds and fogs, spread out from a point of origin, which must be a grid intersection. The effect can extend around corners and into areas that you can\rquote 
t see. Figure distance by actual distance traveled, taking into account turns the spell effect ta
kes. When determining distance for spread effects, count around walls, not through them. As with movement, do not trace diagonals across corners. You must designate the point of origin for such an effect, but you need not have line of effect (see below) t
o all portions of the effect.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  Some spells affect an area. Sometimes a spell description specifies a specially defined area, but usually an area falls into one of the categories defined below.
\par Regardless of the shape of the area, you select the point where the spell originates, but otherwise you don\rquote 
t control which creatures or objects the spell affects. The point of origin of a spell is always a grid intersection. When determining whether a given creature is within the area of a spell, count out the di
stance from the point of origin in squares just as you do when moving a character or when determining the range for a ranged attack. The only difference is that instead of counting from the center of one square to the center of the next, you count from in
tersection to intersection.
\par You can count diagonally across a square, but remember that every second diagonal counts as 2 squares of distance. If the far edge of a square is within the spell\rquote s area, anything within that square is within the spell\rquote s area. If the spell
\rquote s area only touches the near edge of a square, however, anything within that square is unaffected by the spell.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Burst, Emanation, or Spread: }{\fs20\cf0 Most spells that affect an area function as a burst, an emanation, or a spread. In each case, you select the spell\rquote s point of origin and measure its effect from that point.
\par A burst spell affects whatever it catches in its area, even including creatures that you can\rquote t see. It can\rquote t affect creatures with total cover from its point of origin (in other words, its effects don\rquote 
t extend around corners). The default shape for a burst effect is a sphere, but some burst spells are specifically described as cone-shaped. A burst\rquote s area defines how far from the point of origin the spell\rquote s effect extends.}{\i\fs20\cf0 

\par }{\fs20\cf0 An emanation spell functions like a burst spell, except that the effect continues to radiate from the point of origin for the duration of the spell. Most emanations are cones or spheres.}{\i\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\fs20\cf0 A spread spell spreads out like a burst but can turn corners. You select the point of 
origin, and the spell spreads out a given distance in all directions. Figure the area the spell effect fills by taking into account any turns the spell effect takes.}{\i\fs20\cf0 
\par Cone, Cylinder, Line, or Sphere: }{\fs20\cf0 Most spells that affect an area have a particular shape, such as a cone, cylinder, line, or sphere.
\par A cone-shaped spell shoots away from you in a quarter-circle in the direction you designate. It starts from any corner of your square and widens out as it goes. Most cones are either bursts or emanations (see above), and thus won\rquote 
t go around corners.}{\i\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\fs20\cf0 When casting a cylinder-shaped spell, you select the spell\rquote s point of origin. This point is the center of a horizontal circle, and the spell shoots down from the circle, filling a cylinder. A cylinder-shaped spell igno
res any obstructions within its area.}{\i\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\fs20\cf0 A line-shaped spell shoots away from you in a line in the direction you designate. It starts from any corner of your square and extends to the limit of its range or until it strikes a barrier that blocks
 line of effect. A line-shaped spell affects all creatures in squares that the line passes through.}{\i\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\fs20\cf0 A sphere-shaped spell expands from its point of origin to fill a spherical area. Spheres may be bursts, emanations, or spreads.}{\i\fs20\cf0 
\par Creatures: }{\fs20\cf0 A spell with this
 kind of area affects creatures directly (like a targeted spell), but it affects all creatures in an area of some kind rather than individual creatures you select. The area might be a spherical burst , a cone-shaped burst, or some other shape.
\par Many spells affect \'93living creatures,\'94 which means all creatures other than constructs and undead. Creatures in the spell\rquote s area that are not of the appropriate type do not count against the creatures affected.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Objects: }{\fs20\cf0 A spell with this kind of area affects objects within an area you select (as Creatures, but affecting objects instead).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Other: }{\fs20\cf0 A spell can have a unique area, as defined in its description.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 (S) Shapeable: }{\fs20\cf0 If an Area or Effect entry ends with \'93(S),\'94 you can
 shape the spell. A shaped effect or area can have no dimension smaller than 10 feet. Many effects or areas are given as cubes to make it easy to model irregular shapes. Three-dimensional volumes are most often needed to define aerial or underwater effect
s and areas.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Line of Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  A line of effect is a straight, unblocked path that indicates what a spell can affect. A line of effect is canceled by a solid barrier. It\rquote s like line of sight for ranged weapons, except that it\rquote 
s not blocked by fog, darkness, and other factors that limit normal sight.
\par You must have a clear line of effect to any target that you cast a spell on or to any space in which you wish to create an effect. You must have a clear line of effect to the point of origin of any spell you cast}{\i\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\fs20\cf0 A burst, cone, cylinder, or emanation spell affects only an area, creatures, or objects to which it has line of effect from its origin (a spherical burst\rquote s center point, a cone-shaped burst\rquote s starting point, a cylinder\rquote 
s circle, or an emanation\rquote s point of origin).
\par An otherwise solid barrier with a hole of at least 1 square foot through it does not block a spell\rquote s line of effect. Such an opening means that the 5-foot length of wall containing the hole is no longer considered a barrier for purposes of a spell
\rquote s line of effect.
\par }{\cf0 
\par DURATION
\par }{\fs20\cf0 A spell\rquote s Duration entry tells you how long the magical energy of the spell lasts.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Timed Durations: }{\fs20\cf0 Many durations are measured in rounds, minutes, hours, or some other increment. When the time is up, the magic goes away and the spell ends. If a spell\rquote 
s duration is variable the duration is rolled secretly (the caster doesn\rquote t know how long the spell will last). 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Instantaneous:}{\fs20\cf0  The spell energy comes and goes the instant the spell is cast, though the consequences might be long-lasting.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Permanent: }{\fs20\cf0 The energy remains as long as the effect does. This means the spell is vulnerable to }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel magic}{\fs20\cf0 . }{\i\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Concentration:}{\fs20\cf0  The spell lasts as long as you concentrate on it. Concentrating to maintain a spell is a standard action that does not provo
ke attacks of opportunity. Anything that could break your concentration when casting a spell can also break your concentration while you\rquote re maintaining one, causing the spell to end.
\par You can\rquote t cast a spell while concentrating on another one. Sometimes a spell lasts for a short time after you cease concentrating.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Subjects, Effects, and Areas:}{\fs20\cf0  If the spell affects creatures directly the result travels with the subjects for the spell\rquote s duration. If the spell creates an effect, the effect lasts for the duration
. The effect might move or remain still. Such an effect can be destroyed prior to when its duration ends. If the spell affects an area then the spell stays with that area for its duration. 
\par Creatures become subject to the spell when they enter the area and are no longer subject to it when they leave.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Touch Spells and Holding the Charge:}{\fs20\cf0  In most cases, if you don\rquote t discharge a touch spell on the round you cast it, you can hold the charge (postpone the discharge of the spell) indefinitely. You can make touch 
attacks round after round. If you cast another spell, the touch spell dissipates.
\par Some touch spells}{\i\fs20\cf0  }{\fs20\cf0 allow you to touch multiple targets as part of the spell. You can\rquote t hold the charge of such a spell; you must touch all targets of the spell in the same round that you finish casting the spell.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Discharge:}{\fs20\cf0  Occasionally a spells lasts for a set duration or until triggered or discharged.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 (D) Dismissible:}{\fs20\cf0  If the Duration line ends with \'93(D),\'94 you can dismiss the spell at will. You must be within range of the spell\rquote 
s effect and must speak words of dismissal, which are usually a modified form of the spell\rquote 
s verbal component. If the spell has no verbal component, you can dismiss the effect with a gesture. Dismissing a spell is a standard action that does not provoke attacks of opportunity.
\par A spell that depends on concentration is dismissible by its very nature, and dismissing it does not take an action, since all you have to do to end the spell is to stop concentrating on your turn.
\par }{\cf0 
\par SAVING THROW
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Usually a harmful spe
ll allows a target to make a saving throw to avoid some or all of the effect. The Saving Throw entry in a spell description defines which type of saving throw the spell allows and describes how saving throws against the spell work.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Negates: }{\fs20\cf0 The spell has no effect on a subject that makes a successful saving throw.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Partial:}{\fs20\cf0  The spell causes an effect on its subject. A successful saving throw means that some lesser effect occurs.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Half:}{\fs20\cf0  The spell deals damage, and a successful saving throw halves the damage taken (round down).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 None:}{\fs20\cf0  No saving throw is allowed.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Disbelief:}{\fs20\cf0  A successful save lets the subject ignore the effect. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 (object):}{\fs20\cf0  The spell can be cast on objects, which receive saving throws only if they are magical or if they are attended (h
eld, worn, grasped, or the like) by a creature resisting the spell, in which case the object uses the creature\rquote 
s saving throw bonus unless its own bonus is greater. (This notation does not mean that a spell can be cast only on objects. Some spells of this sort can be cast on creatures or objects.) A magic item\rquote 
s saving throw bonuses are each equal to 2 + one-half the item\rquote s caster level. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 (harmless):}{\fs20\cf0  The spell is usually beneficial, not harmful, but a targeted creature can attempt a saving throw if it desires.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw Difficulty Class:}{\fs20\cf0 
 A saving throw against your spell has a DC of 10 + the level of the spell + your bonus for the relevant ability (Intelligence for a wizard, Charisma for a sorcerer or bard, or Wisdom for a cleric, druid, paladin, or ranger). A spell\rquote 
s level can vary depending on your class. Always use the spell level applicable to your class.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Succeeding on a Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 A creature that successfully saves against a spell that has no obvious physical effects feels a hostile force or a tingle, but cannot deduce the exact nature of the attack. Likewise, if a creature
\rquote s saving throw succeeds against a targeted spell you sense that the spell has failed. You do not sense when creatures succeed on saves against effect and area spells.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Automatic Failures and Successes:}{\fs20\cf0 
 A natural 1 (the d20 comes up 1) on a saving throw is always a failure, and the spell may cause damage to exposed items (see Items Surviving after a Saving Throw, below). A natural 20 (the d20 comes up 20) is always a success.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Voluntarily Giving up a Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  A creature can voluntarily forego a saving throw and willingly accept a spell\rquote s result. Even a character with a special resistance to magic can suppress this quality.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Items Surviving after a Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Unless the descript
ive text for the spell specifies otherwise, all items carried or worn by a creature are assumed to survive a magical attack. If a creature rolls a natural 1 on its saving throw against the effect, however, an exposed item is harmed (if the attack can harm
 
objects). Refer to Table: Items Affected by Magical Attacks. Determine which four objects carried or worn by the creature are most likely to be affected and roll randomly among them. The randomly determined item must make a saving throw against the attack
 form and take whatever damage the attack deal.
\par If an item is not carried or worn and is not magical, it does not get a saving throw. It simply is dealt the appropriate damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4989\pard\plain 
\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0 \b\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Table: Items Affected by Magical Attacks}{\b0 \cell }\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4989\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx707\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4989\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Order}{
\b\fs20\cf0\super 1}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 Item}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx707\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4989\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 1st}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 Shield}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx707\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx4989\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 2nd}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 Armor}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx707\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4989\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 3rd}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 Magic helmet, hat, or headband}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx707\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4989\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 4th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 
Item in hand (including weapon, wand, or the like)}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx707\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4989\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 5th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 Magic cloak}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx707\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx4989\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 6th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 Stowed or sheathed weapon}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 
\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx707\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4989\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 7th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 Magic bracers}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx707\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4989\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 8th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 Magic clothing}{
\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx707\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4989\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 9th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{
\fs20\cf0 Magic jewelry (including rings)}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx707\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4989\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 10th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 Anything else}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx707\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx4989\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4989\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 1 In order of most likely to least likely to be affected.}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4989\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\cf0 
\par SPELL RESISTANCE
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Spell resistance is a special defensive ability. If your spell is being resisted by a creature with spell resistance, you must make a caster level check (1d20 + caster level) at least equal to the creature\rquote 
s spell resistance for the spell to affect that creature. The defender\rquote s spell resistance is like an Armor Class against magical attacks. Include any adjustments to your caster level to this caster level check.
\par The Spell Resistan
ce entry and the descriptive text of a spell description tell you whether spell resistance protects creatures from the spell. In many cases, spell resistance applies only when a resistant creature is targeted by the spell, not when a resistant creature en
counters a spell that is already in place.
\par The terms \'93object\'94 and \'93harmless\'94 mean the same thing for spell resistance as they do 
for saving throws. A creature with spell resistance must voluntarily lower the resistance (a standard action) in order to be affected by a spell noted as harmless. In such a case, you do not need to make the caster level check described above.
\par }{\cf0 
\par DESCRIPTIVE TEXT
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This portion of a spell description details what the spell does and how it works. If one of the previous entries in the description included \'93see text,\'94 this is where the explanation is found. 
\par }{\fs36\cf0 
\par ARCANE SPELLS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Wizards, sorcerers, and bards cast arcane spells. Compared to divine spells, arcane spells are more likely to produce dramatic results.
\par }{\cf0 
\par PREPARING WIZARD SPELLS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 A wizard\rquote s level limits the number of spells she can prepare and cast. Her high Intelligence score might allow her to prepare a few extr
a spells. She can prepare the same spell more than once, but each preparation counts as one spell toward her daily limit. To prepare a spell the wizard must have an Intelligence score of at least 10 + the spell\rquote s level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Rest: }{\fs20\cf0 To prepare her daily spells, a
 wizard must first sleep for 8 hours. The wizard does not have to slumber for every minute of the time, but she must refrain from movement, combat, spellcasting, skill use, conversation, or any other fairly demanding physical or mental task during the res
t
 period. If her rest is interrupted, each interruption adds 1 hour to the total amount of time she has to rest in order to clear her mind, and she must have at least 1 hour of uninterrupted rest immediately prior to preparing her spells. If the character 
does not need to sleep for some reason, she still must have 8 hours of restful calm before preparing any spells. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Recent Casting Limit/Rest Interruptions:}{\fs20\cf0  If a wizard has cast spells recently, the drain on her resources reduces her capacity to prepare new s
pells. When she prepares spells for the coming day, all the spells she has cast within the last 8 hours count against her daily limit.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Preparation Environment:}{\fs20\cf0  To prepare any spell, a wizard must have enough peace, quiet, and comfort to allow for proper concentration. The wizard\rquote 
s surroundings need not be luxurious, but they must be free from overt distractions. Exposure to inclement weather prevents the necessary concentration, as does any injury or failed saving throw the character might experience while 
studying. Wizards also must have access to their spellbooks to study from and sufficient light to read them by. There is one major exception: A wizard can prepare a }{\i\fs20\cf0 read magic }{\fs20\cf0 spell even without a spellbook. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Preparation Time:}{\fs20\cf0  After resting, a wizard
 must study her spellbook to prepare any spells that day. If she wants to prepare all her spells, the process takes 1 hour. Preparing some smaller portion of her daily capacity takes a proportionally smaller amount of time, but always at least 15 minutes,
 the minimum time required to achieve the proper mental state.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Selection and Preparation:}{\fs20\cf0  Until she prepares spells from her spellbook, the only spells a wizard has available to cast are the ones that she already had prepared from the previous day and
 has not yet used. During the study period, she chooses which spells to prepare. If a wizard already has spells prepared (from the previous day) that she has not cast, she can abandon some or all of them to make room for new spells.
\par When preparing spells f
or the day, a wizard can leave some of these spell slots open. Later during that day, she can repeat the preparation process as often as she likes, time and circumstances permitting. During these extra sessions of preparation, the wizard can fill these un
u
sed spell slots. She cannot, however, abandon a previously prepared spell to replace it with another one or fill a slot that is empty because she has cast a spell in the meantime. That sort of preparation requires a mind fresh from rest. Like the first se
ssion of the day, this preparation takes at least 15 minutes, and it takes longer if the wizard prepares more than one-quarter of her spells.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Slots:}{\fs20\cf0  The various character class tables show how many spells of each level a character can cast per day. Th
ese openings for daily spells are called spell slots. A spellcaster always has the option to fill a higher-level spell slot with a lower-level spell. A spellcaster who lacks a high enough ability score to cast spells that would otherwise be his or her due
 still gets the slots but must fill them with spells of lower level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prepared Spell Retention:}{\fs20\cf0  Once a wizard prepares a spell, it remains in her mind as a nearly cast spell until she uses the prescribed components to complete and trigger it or until she aba
ndons it. Certain other events, such as the effects of magic items or special attacks from monsters, can wipe a prepared spell from a character\rquote s mind.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Death and Prepared Spell Retention:}{\fs20\cf0  If a spellcaster dies, all prepared spells stored in his or her mind are wiped away. Potent magic (such as }{\i\fs20\cf0 raise dead, resurrection, }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 true resurrection
}{\fs20\cf0 ) can recover the lost energy when it recovers the character.
\par }{\cf0 
\par ARCANE MAGICAL WRITINGS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 To record an arcane spell in written form, a character uses complex notation that de
scribes the magical forces involved in the spell. The writer uses the same system no matter what her native language or culture. However, each character uses the system in her own way. Another person\rquote 
s magical writing remains incomprehensible to even the most powerful wizard until she takes time to study and decipher it.
\par To decipher an arcane magical writing (such as a single spell in written form in another\rquote s spellbook or on a scroll), a character must make a Spellcraft check (DC 20 + the spell\rquote s level). I
f the skill check fails, the character cannot attempt to read that particular spell again until the next day. A }{\i\fs20\cf0 read magic }{\fs20\cf0 
spell automatically deciphers a magical writing without a skill check. If the person who created the magical writing is on hand to help the reader, success is also automatic.
\par Once a character deciphers a particular magical writing, she does not need to decipher it again. Deciphering a magical writing allows the reader to identify the spell and gives some idea of its effects (as explaine
d in the spell description). If the magical writing was a scroll and the reader can cast arcane spells, she can attempt to use the scroll.
\par 
\par Wizard Spells and Borrowed Spellbooks
\par A wizard can use a borrowed spellbook to prepare a spell she already knows and
 has recorded in her own spellbook, but preparation success is not assured. First, the wizard must decipher the writing in the book (see Arcane Magical Writings, above). Once a spell from another spellcaster\rquote 
s book is deciphered, the reader must make a Spellcraft check (DC 15 + spell\rquote 
s level) to prepare the spell. If the check succeeds, the wizard can prepare the spell. She must repeat the check to prepare the spell again, no matter how many times she has prepared it before. If the check fails, she cannot t
ry to prepare the spell from the same source again until the next day. (However, as explained above, she does not need to repeat a check to decipher the writing.)
\par 
\par Adding Spells to a Wizard\rquote s Spellbook
\par Wizards can add new spells to their spellbooks through several methods. If a wizard has chosen to specialize in a school of magic, she can learn spells only from schools whose spells she can cast.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spells Gained at a New Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Wizards perform a certain amo
unt of spell research between adventures. Each time a character attains a new wizard level, she gains two spells of her choice to add to her spellbook. The two free spells must be of spell levels she can cast. If she has chosen to specialize in a school o
f magic, one of the two free spells must be from her specialty school.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spells Copied from Another\rquote s Spellbook or a Scroll:}{\fs20\cf0  A wizard can also add a spell to her book whenever she encounters one on a magic scroll or in another wizard\rquote s spellbook. No matter what the spell\rquote 
s source, the wizard must first decipher the magical writing (see Arcane Magical Writings, above). Next, she must spend a day studying the spell. At the end of the day, she must make a Spellcraft check (DC 15 + spell\rquote s level). A wizard who has
 specialized in a school of spells gains a +2 bonus on the Spellcraft check if the new spell is from her specialty school. She cannot, however, learn any spells from her prohibited schools. If the check succeeds, the wizard understands the spell and can c
opy it into her spellbook (see Writing a New Spell into a Spellbook, below). The process leaves a spellbook that was copied from unharmed, but a spell successfully copied from a magic scroll disappears from the parchment.
\par If the check fails, the wizard cannot understand or copy the spell. She cannot attempt to learn or copy that spell again until she gains another rank in Spellcraft. A spell that was being copied from a scroll does not vanish from the scroll.
\par In most cases, wizards charge a fee for the privilege of copying spells from their spellbooks. This fee is usually equal to the spell\rquote s level x\u-4064\'3f50 gp.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Independent Research:}{\fs20\cf0  A wizard also can research a spell independently, duplicating an existing spell or creating an entirely new one.
\par 
\par Writing a New Spell into a Spellbook
\par Once a wizard understands a new spell, she can record it into her spellbook.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Time:}{\fs20\cf0  The process takes 24 hours, regardless of the spell\rquote s level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Space in the Spellbook:}{\fs20\cf0  A spell takes up one page of the spellbook per spell level. Even a 0-level spell (cantrip) takes one page. A spellbook has one hundred pages.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Materials and Costs:}{\fs20\cf0  Materials for writing the spell cost 100 gp per page.
\par Note that a wizard does not have to pay these costs in time or gold for the spells she gains for free at each new level. 
\par 
\par Replacing and Copying Spellbooks
\par A wizard can use the procedure for learning a spell to reconstruct a lost spellbook. If she already has a particular spell prepared, she can write it directly into a new book at a cost of 10
0 gp per page (as noted in Writing a New Spell into a Spellbook, above). The process wipes the prepared spell from her mind, just as casting it would. If she does not have the spell prepared, she can prepare it from a borrowed spellbook and then write it 
into a new book.
\par Duplicating an existing spellbook uses the same procedure as replacing it, but the task is much easier. The time requirement and cost per page are halved.
\par 
\par Selling a Spellbook
\par Captured spellbooks can be sold for a gp amount equal to one-hal
f the cost of purchasing and inscribing the spells within (that is, one-half of 100 gp per page of spells). A spellbook entirely filled with spells (that is, with one hundred pages of spells inscribed in it) is worth 5,000 gp.
\par }{\cf0 
\par SORCERERS AND BARDS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Sorcerers and bards cast arcane spells, but they do not have spellbooks and do not prepare their spells. A sorcerer\rquote s or bard\rquote 
s class level limits the number of spells he can cast (see these class descriptions). His high Charisma score might allow him to cast a few extra spells. A member of either class must have a Charisma score of at least 10 + a spell\rquote 
s level to cast the spell.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Daily Readying of Spells:}{\fs20\cf0  Each day, sorcerers and bards must focus their minds on the task of casting their spells. A sorcerer or bard n
eeds 8 hours of rest (just like a wizard), after which he spends 15 minutes concentrating. (A bard must sing, recite, or play an instrument of some kind while concentrating.) During this period, the sorcerer or bard readies his mind to cast his daily allo
tment of spells. Without such a period to refresh himself, the character does not regain the spell slots he used up the day before.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Recent Casting Limit: }{\fs20\cf0 As with wizards, any spells cast within the last 8 hours count against the sorcerer\rquote s or bard\rquote s daily limit.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Adding Spells to a Sorcerer\rquote s or Bard\rquote s Repertoire:}{\fs20\cf0 
 A sorcerer or bard gains spells each time he attains a new level in his class and never gains spells any other way. When your sorcerer or bard gains a new level, consult Table: Bard Spells Known or 
Table: Sorcerer Spells Known to learn how many spells from the appropriate spell list he now knows. With permission, sorcerers and bards can also select the spells they gain from new and unusual spells that they have gained some understanding of.
\par }{\fs36\cf0 
\par DIVINE SPELLS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 
Clerics, druids, experienced paladins, and experienced rangers can cast divine spells. Unlike arcane spells, divine spells draw power from a divine source. Clerics gain spell power from deities or from divine forces. The divine force of nature powers
 druid and ranger spells. The divine forces of law and good power paladin spells. Divine spells tend to focus on healing and protection and are less flashy, destructive, and disruptive than arcane spells.
\par }{\cf0 
\par PREPARING DIVINE SPELLS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Divine spellcasters prepare their spells in largely the same manner as wizards do, but with a few differences. The relevant ability for divine spells is Wisdom. To prepare a divine spell, a character must have a Wisdom score of 10 + the spell
\rquote s level. Likewise, bonus spells are based on Wisdom.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Time of Day:}{\fs20\cf0  A divine spellcaster chooses and prepares spells ahead of time, just as a wizard does. However, a divine spellcaster does not require a period of rest to prepare spells. Instead, the character chooses a 
particular part of the day to pray and receive spells. The time is usually associated with some daily event. If some event prevents a character from praying at the proper time, he must do so as soon as possible. If the character does not stop to pray for 
spells at the first opportunity, he must wait until the next day to prepare spells.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Selection and Preparation:}{\fs20\cf0  A divine spellcaster selects and prepares spells ahead of time through prayer and meditation at a particular time of day. The time required 
to prepare spells is the same as it is for a wizard (1 hour), as is the requirement for a relatively peaceful environment. A divine spellcaster does not have to prepare all his spells at once. However, the character\rquote 
s mind is considered fresh only during his or her first daily spell preparation, so a divine spellcaster cannot fill a slot that is empty because he or she has cast a spell or abandoned a previously prepared spell.
\par Divine spellcasters do not require spellbooks. However, such a character\rquote s spell 
selection is limited to the spells on the list for his or her class. Clerics, druids, paladins, and rangers have separate spell lists. A cleric also has access to two domains determined during his character creation. Each domain gives him access to a doma
in spell at each spell level from 1st to 9th, as well as a special granted power. With access to two domain spells at each spell level\emdash one from each of his two domains\emdash 
a cleric must prepare, as an extra domain spell, one or the other each day for each level of spell he can cast. If a domain spell is not on the cleric spell list, it can be prepared only in a domain spell slot.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Slots:}{\fs20\cf0  The character class tables show how many spells of each level a character can cast per day.
\par These openings for daily spel
ls are called spell slots. A spellcaster always has the option to fill a higher-level spell slot with a lower level spell. A spellcaster who lacks a high enough ability score to cast spells that would otherwise be his or her due still gets the slots but m
ust fill them with spells of lower level. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Recent Casting Limit:}{\fs20\cf0  As with arcane spells, at the time of preparation any spells cast within the previous 8 hours count against the number of spells that can be prepared.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spontaneous Casting of }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Cure }{\b\fs20\cf0 and }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Inflict }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spells:}{\fs20\cf0  A good cleric (or a cleric of a good deity) can spontaneously cast a }{\i\fs20\cf0 cure }{\fs20\cf0 
spell in place of a prepared spell of the same level or higher, but not in place of a domain spell. An evil cleric (or a cleric of an evil deity) can spontaneously cast an }{\i\fs20\cf0 inflict }{\fs20\cf0 
spell in place of a prepared spell (one that is not a domain spell) of the same level or higher. Each neutral cleric of a neutral deity either spontaneously casts }{\i\fs20\cf0 cure }{\fs20\cf0 spells like a good cleric or }{\i\fs20\cf0 inflict }{
\fs20\cf0 spells like an evil one, depending on which option the player chooses when creating the character. The divine energy of the spell that the }{\i\fs20\cf0 cure }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 inflict }{\fs20\cf0 
spell substitutes for is converted into the }{\i\fs20\cf0 cure }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 inflict }{\fs20\cf0 spell as if that spell had been prepared all along.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spontaneous Casting of }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Summon Nature\rquote s Ally }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spells:}{\fs20\cf0  A druid can spontaneously cast a }{\i\fs20\cf0 summon nature\rquote s ally }{\fs20\cf0 
spell in place of a prepared spell of the same level or higher. The divine energy of the spell that the }{\i\fs20\cf0 summon nature\rquote s ally }{\fs20\cf0 spell substitutes for is converted into the }{\i\fs20\cf0 summon }{\fs20\cf0 spell as 
if that spell had been prepared all along.
\par }{\cf0 
\par DIVINE MAGICAL WRITINGS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Divine spells can be written down and deciphered just as arcane spells can (see Arcane Magical Writings, above). Any character with the Spellcraft skill can attempt to decipher the divine 
magical writing and identify it. However, only characters who have the spell in question (in its divine form) on their class spell list can cast a divine spell from a scroll.
\par }{\cf0 
\par NEW DIVINE SPELLS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Divine spellcasters most frequently gain new spells in one of the following two ways.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spells Gained at a New Level: }{\fs20\cf0 
Characters who can cast divine spells undertake a certain amount of study between adventures. Each time such a character receives a new level of divine spells, he or she learns new spells from that level automatically.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Independent Research:}{\fs20\cf0  A divine spellcaster also can research a spell independently, much as an arcane spellcaster can. Only the creator of such a spell can prepare and cast it, unless he decides to share it with others.
\par }{\fs36\cf0 
\par SPECIAL ABILITIES
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell-Like Abilities:}{\fs20\cf0  Usually, a spell-like ability works just like the spell of that name. A few spell-like abilities are unique; these are explained in the text where they are described.
\par A spell-like ability has no verbal, somatic, or material component, nor does it require a focus or have an XP cost. The user activates it mentally. Armor never affects a spell-like ability\rquote 
s use, even if the ability resembles an arcane spell with a somatic component.
\par A spell-like ability has a casting time of 1 standard action unless noted otherwise in the ability or spell description. In all other ways, a spell-like ability functions just like a spell.
\par Spell-like abilities are subject to spell resistance and to being dispelled by }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel magic}{\fs20\cf0 . They do not function in area
s where magic is suppressed or negated. Spell-like abilities cannot be used to counterspell, nor can they be counterspelled.
\par Some creatures are actually sorcerers of a sort. They cast arcane spells as sorcerers do, using components when required. In fact, an individual creature could have some spell-like abilities and also cast other spells as a sorcerer.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Supernatural Abilities:}{\fs20\cf0  These abilities cannot be disrupted in combat, as spells can, and they generally do not provoke attacks of opportunity. Supernatur
al abilities are not subject to spell resistance, counterspells, or to being dispelled by }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel magic}{\fs20\cf0 , and do not function in areas where magic is suppressed or negated.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Extraordinary Abilities:}{\fs20\cf0 
 These abilities cannot be disrupted in combat, as spells can, and they generally do not provoke attacks of opportunity. Effects or areas that negate or disrupt magic have no effect on extraordinary abilities. They are not subject to dispelling, and they 
function normally in an }{\i\fs20\cf0 antimagic field. }{\fs20\cf0 Indeed, extraordinary abilities do not qualify as magical, though they may break the laws of physics.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Natural Abilities:}{\fs20\cf0  This category includes abilities a creature has because of its physical nature. Natural abilities are those not otherwise designated as extraordinary, supernatural, or spell-like.}{\cf0 
\par }}