{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New{\*\falt Courier};}{\f164\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f165\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f167\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f168\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f169\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f170\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f171\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f180\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f181\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr{\*\falt Courier};}{\f183\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek{\*\falt Courier};}{\f184\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f185\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier};}{\f186\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic){\*\falt Courier};}{\f187\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic{\*\falt Courier};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs17\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{
\s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs20\cf6\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 4;}{\s5\qr \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel4\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs17\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 5;}{\s6\qr \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel5\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 6;}{
\s7\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel6\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs17\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 7;}{\s8\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel7\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 8;}{\s9\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel8\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs37\cf6\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 9;}{\*
\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs19\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Body Text;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Body Text 2;}{\s17\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 Preformatted;}}{\info{\title CREATING MAGIC ITEMS}{\author AKSmith}{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2003\mo7\dy1\hr15\min6}{\revtim\yr2003\mo7\dy2\hr13\min21}{\version5}
{\edmins2}{\nofpages6}{\nofwords6965}{\nofchars39701}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws48755}{\vern8283}}\margl1080\margr1080\margt1080\margb1080 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace120\dgvspace180\dghorigin1080\dgvorigin1080\dghshow2\dgvshow2
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 
This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{\f0\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \s9\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel8\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs37\cf6\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs36\cf0 MAGIC ITEMS I (BASICS & CREATION)
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
Magic items are divided into categories: armor, weapons, potions, rings, rods, scrolls, staffs, wands, and wondrous items. In addition, some magic items are cursed or intelligent. Fin
ally, a few magic items are of such rarity and power that they are considered to belong to a category of their own: artifacts. Artifacts are classified in turn as minor (extremely rare but not one-of-a-kind items) or major (each one unique and extremely p
otent).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 Armor and Shields:}{\fs20\cf0 
 Magic armor (including shields) offers improved, magical protection to the wearer. Some of these items confer abilities beyond a benefit to Armor Class. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Weapons:}{\fs20\cf0  Magic weapons are created with a variety of combat powers and almost always improve the attack and damage rolls of the wielder as well.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Potions:}{\fs20\cf0  A potion is an elixir concocted with a spell-like effect that affects only the drinker.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Rings:}{\fs20\cf0  A ring is a circular metal band worn on the finger (no more than two rings per wearer) that has a spell-like power (often a constant effect that affects the wearer).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Rods: }{\fs20\cf0 A rod is a scepter-like item with a special power unlike that of any known spell.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Scrolls:}{\fs20\cf0  A scroll is a spell magically inscribed onto paper or parchment so that it can be used later.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Staffs:}{\fs20\cf0  A staff has a number of different (but often related) spell effects. A newly created staff has 50 charges, and each use of the staff depletes one or more of those charges.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Wands:}{\fs20\cf0  A wand is a short stick imbued with the power to cast a specific spell. A newly created wand has 50 charges, and each use of the wand depletes one of those charges.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Items:}{\fs20\cf0  These objects include magic jewelry, tools, books, clothing, and much more.
\par }{\fs37\cf0 
\par }{\fs21\cf0 Magic Items and Detect Magic
\par }{\fs20\cf0 When }{\i\fs20\cf0 detect magic }{\fs20\cf0 identifies a magic item\rquote 
s school of magic, this information refers to the school of the spell placed within the potion, scroll, or wand, or the prerequisite given for the item. The description of each item provides its aura strength and the school it belongs to.
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
If more than one spell is given as a prerequisite, use the highest-level spell. If no spells are included in the prerequisites, use the following default guidelines.
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3452\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4835
\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 Item Nature\cell School\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 
\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3452\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4835\row 
}\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3452\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4835\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Armor and protection items\cell Abjuration\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3452\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4835\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Weapons or offensive items\cell Evocation\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3452\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4835\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3452\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4835\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Bonus to ability score, on skill check, etc.\cell Transmutation\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3452\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4835\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs25\cf0 
\par USING ITEMS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 
To use a magic item, it must be activated, although sometimes activation simply means putting a ring on your finger. Some items, once donned, function constantly. In most cases, using an item requires a standard action that does not provoke attacks of opp
ortunity. By contrast, spell completion items are treated like spells in combat and do provoke attacks of opportunity.
\par Activating a magic item is a standard action unless the item description indicates otherwise. However, the casting time of a spell is the 
time required to activate the same power in an item, regardless of the type of magic item, unless the item description specifically states otherwise.
\par The four ways to activate magic items are described below.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Completion:}{\fs20\cf0  This is the activation method for scrolls. A scroll is a spell that is mostly finished. The preparation is done for the caster, so no preparation time is needed beforehand as with normal spellcasting. All that
\rquote s left to do is perform the finishing parts of the spellcasting (the final gestures, words, and so on). To use a spell completion item safely, a character must be of high enough level in the right class to cast the spell already. If he can\rquote 
t already cast the spell, there\rquote s a chance he\rquote ll make a mistake. Activating a spell completion item is a standard action and provokes attacks of opportunity exactly as casting a spell does.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Trigger:}{\fs20\cf0  Spell trigger activation is similar to spell completion, but it\rquote s even simpler. No gestures or spell finishing is needed, just a special knowl
edge of spellcasting that an appropriate character would know, and a single word that must be spoken. Anyone with a spell on his or her spell list knows how to use a spell trigger item that stores that spell. (This is the case even for a character who can
\rquote t actually cast spells, such as a 3rd-level paladin.) The user must still determine what spell is stored in the item before she can activate it. Activating a spell trigger item is a standard action and does not provoke attacks of opportunity.

\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Command Word: }{\fs20\cf0 
If no activation method is suggested either in the magic item description or by the nature of the item, assume that a command word is needed to activate it. Command word activation means that a character speaks the word and the item activates. No other sp
ecial knowledge is needed.
\par A command word can be a real word, but when this is the case, the holder of the item runs the risk of activating the item accidentally by speaking the word in normal conversation. More often, the command word is some seemingly no
nsensical word, or a word or phrase from an ancient language no longer in common use. Activating a command word magic item is a standard action and does not provoke attacks of opportunity.
\par Sometimes the command word to activate an item is written right on the item. Occasionally, it might be hidden within a pattern or design engraved on, carved into, or built into the item, or the item might bear a clue to the command word.
\par The Knowledge (arcana) and Knowledge (history) skills might be useful in helping to i
dentify command words or deciphering clues regarding them. A successful check against DC 30 is needed to come up with the word itself. If that check is failed, succeeding on a second check (DC 25) might provide some insight into a clue.
\par The spells }{\i\fs20\cf0 identify }{\fs20\cf0 and }{\i\fs20\cf0 analyze dweomer }{\fs20\cf0 both reveal command words.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Use Activated:}{\fs20\cf0  This type of item simply has to be used in order to activate it. A character has to drink a potion, swing a sword, interpose a shield to deflect a blow in combat, look through a lens, sprinkle 
dust, wear a ring, or don a hat. Use activation is generally straightforward and self-explanatory.
\par Many use-activated items are objects that a character wears. Continually functioning items are practically always items that one wears. A few must simply be in the character\rquote s possession (on his person). However, some items made for wearing}{
\i\fs20\cf0  }{\fs20\cf0 must still be activated. Although this activation sometimes requires a command word (see above), usually it means mentally willing the activation to happen. The description
 of an item states whether a command word is needed in such a case.
\par Unless stated otherwise, activating a use-activated magic item is either a standard action or not an action at all and does not provoke attacks of opportunity, unless the use involves perf
orming an action that provokes an attack of opportunity in itself. If the use of the item takes time before a magical effect occurs, then use activation is a standard action. If the item\rquote 
s activation is subsumed in its use and takes no extra time use activation is not an action at all.
\par Use activation doesn\rquote t mean that if you use an item, you automatically know what it can do. You must know (or at least guess) what the item can do and then use the item in order to activate it, unless the benefit of the item 
comes automatically, such from drinking a potion or swinging a sword.
\par }{\fs25\cf0 
\par SIZE AND MAGIC ITEMS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 When an article of magic clothing or jewelry is discovered, most of the time size shouldn\rquote t be an issue. Many 
magic garments are made to be easily adjustable, or they adjust themselves magically to the wearer. Size should not keep characters of various kinds from using magic items.
\par There may be rare exceptions, especially with racial specific items. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Armor and Weapon Sizes: }{\fs20\cf0 Armor and weapons that are found at random have a 30% chance of being Small (01\endash 30), a 60% chance of being Medium (31\endash 90), and a 10% chance of being any other size (91\endash 100).
\par }{\fs25\cf0 
\par MAGIC ITEMS ON THE BODY
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Many magic items need to be donned by a character who wants to employ them or benefit from their abilities. It\rquote 
s possible for a creature with a humanoid-shaped body to wear as many as twelve magic items at the same time. However, each of those items must be worn on (or over) a particular part of the body.
\par A humanoid-shaped body can be decked out in magic gear consisting of one item from each of the following groups, keyed to which place on the body the item is worn.
\par \bullet  One headband, hat, helmet, or phylactery on the head
\par \bullet  One pair of eye lenses or goggles on or over the eyes
\par \bullet  One amulet, brooch, medallion, necklace, periapt, or scarab around the neck
\par \bullet  One vest, vestment, or shirt on the torso
\par \bullet  One robe or suit of armor on the body (over a vest, vestment, or shirt)
\par \bullet  One belt around the waist (over a robe or suit of armor)
\par \bullet  One cloak, cape, or mantle around the shoulders (over a robe or suit of armor)
\par \bullet  One pair of bracers or bracelets on the arms or wrists
\par \bullet  One glove, pair of gloves, or pair of gauntlets on the hands
\par \bullet  One ring on each hand (or two rings on one hand)
\par \bullet  One pair of boots or shoes on the feet
\par Of course, a character may carry or possess as many items of the same type as he wishes. However, additional items beyond those listed above have no effect. 
\par Some items}{\i\fs20\cf0  }{\fs20\cf0 can be worn or carried without taking up space on a character\rquote s body. The description of an item indicates when an item has this property.
\par }{\fs25\cf0 
\par SAVING THROWS AGAINST MAGIC ITEM POWERS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Magic items produce spells or spell-like effects. For a saving throw against a spell or spell-like effe
ct from a magic item, the DC is 10 + the level of the spell or effect + the ability modifier of the minimum ability score needed to cast that level of spell. 
\par Staffs are an exception to the rule. Treat the saving throw as if the wielder cast the spell, including caster level and all modifiers to save DC. 
\par Most item descriptions give saving throw DCs for various effects, particularly when the effect has no exact spell equivalent (making its level otherwise difficult to determine quickly).
\par }{\fs25\cf0 
\par DAMAGING MAGIC ITEMS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 A magic item doesn\rquote 
t need to make a saving throw unless it is unattended, it is specifically targeted by the effect, or its wielder rolls a natural 1 on his save. Magic items should always get a saving throw against spells that might deal damage to them\emdash 
 even against attacks from which a nonmagical item would normally get no chance to save. Magic items use the same saving throw bonus for all saves, no matter what the type (Fortitude, Reflex, or Will). A magic item\rquote 
s saving throw bonus equals 2 + one-half its caster level (round down). The only exceptions to this are intelligent magic items, which make Will saves based on their own Wisdom scores.
\par Magic items, unless otherwise noted, take damage as nonmagical items of the same sort. A damaged magic item continues to function, but if it is destroyed, all its magical power is lost.
\par }{\fs25\cf0 
\par REPAIRING MAGIC ITEMS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Some magic items take damage over the course of an adventure. It costs no more to repair a magic item with the Craft skill than it does to repair its nonmagical counterpart. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 make whole }{\fs20\cf0 spell also repairs a damaged
\emdash but not completely broken\emdash magic item.
\par }{\fs25\cf0 
\par INTELLIGENT ITEMS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Some magic items, particular
ly weapons, have an intelligence all their own. Only permanent magic items (as opposed to those with a single use or those with charges) can be intelligent. (This means that potions, scrolls, and wands, among other items, are never intelligent.)
\par In general, less than 1% of magic items have intelligence. 
\par }{\fs25\cf0 
\par CURSED ITEMS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Some items are cursed\emdash incorrectly made, or corrupted by outside forces. Cursed items might be particularly dangerous to the user, or they might be normal items with a minor flaw, an inconvenie
nt requirement, or an unpredictable nature. Randomly generated items are cursed 5% of the time. 
\par }{\fs25\cf0 
\par CHARGES, DOSES, AND MULTIPLE USES
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Many items, particularly wands and staffs, are limited in power by the number of charges they hold. Normally, charged items 
have 50 charges at most. If such an item is found as a random part of a treasure, roll d% and divide by 2 to determine the number of charges left (round down, minimum 1). If the item has a maximum number of charges other than 50, roll randomly to determin
e how many charges are left. 
\par Prices listed are always for fully charged items. (When an item is created, it is fully charged.) For an item that\rquote s worthless when its charges run out (which is the case for almost all charged items), the value of the partiall
y used item is proportional to the number of charges left. For an item that has usefulness in addition to its charges, only part of the item\rquote s value is based on the number of charges left.
\par }{\fs37\cf0 
\par MAGIC ITEM DESCRIPTIONS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Each general type of magic item gets an overall description, followed by descriptions of specific items.
\par General descriptions include notes on activation, random generation, and other material. The AC, hardness, hit points, and break DC are given for typical examples of some magic items. The AC assumes that the item is unattended and includes a \endash 
5 penalty for the item\rquote s effective Dexterity of 0. If a creature holds the item, use the creature\rquote s Dexterity modifier in place of the \endash 5 penalty.
\par Some individual items, notably those that simply store spells and nothing else, don\rquote t get full-blown descriptions. Reference the spell\rquote 
s description for details, modified by the form of the item (potion, scroll, wand, and so on). Assume that the spell is cast at the minimum level required to cast it
\par Items with full descriptions have their powers detailed, and each of the following topics is covered in notational form at the end of the description.
\par \bullet  Aura: Most of the time, a }{\i\fs20\cf0 detect magic }{\fs20\cf0 spell will reveal the school of magic associated with a magic item and the str
ength of the aura an item emits. This information (when applicable) is given at the beginning of the item\rquote s notational entry. See the }{\i\fs20\cf0 detect magic }{\fs20\cf0 spell description}{\i\fs20\cf0  }{\fs20\cf0 for details.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 \bullet  }{\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: The next item in a notational entry gives the caster level of the item, indicating its relative power. The caster level determines the item\rquote 
s saving throw bonus, as well as range or other level-dependent aspects of the powers of the item (if variable). It also determines the level that must be contended with should the item come under the effect of a }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel magic }{\fs20\cf0 
spell or similar situation. This information is given in the form \'93CL x,\'94 where \'93CL\'94 is an abbreviation for caster level and \'93x\'94 is an ordinal number representing the caster level itself.
\par For potions, scrolls
, and wands, the creator can set the caster level of an item at any number high enough to cast the stored spell and not higher than her own caster level. For other magic items, the caster level is determined by the item itself. In this case, the creator
\rquote s caster level must be as high as the item\rquote s caster level (and prerequisites may effectively put a higher minimum on the creator\rquote s level).
\par \bullet  Prerequisites: Certain requirements must be met in order for a character to create a magic item. These include feats,
 spells, and miscellaneous requirements such as level, alignment, and race or kind. The prerequisites for creation of an item are given immediately following the item\rquote s caster level.
\par A spell prerequisite may be provided by a character who has prepared the 
spell (or who knows the spell, in the case of a sorcerer or bard), or through the use of a spell completion or spell trigger magic item or a spell-like ability that produces the desired spell effect. For each day that passes in the creation process, the c
reator must expend one spell completion item or one charge from a spell trigger item if either of those objects is used to supply a prerequisite.
\par It is possible for more than one character to cooperate in the creation of an item, with each participant providing one or more of the prerequisites. In some cases, cooperation may even be necessary.
\par If two or more characters cooperate to create an item, they must agree among themselves who will be considered the creator for the purpose of determinations where the creator\rquote 
s level must be known. The character designated as the creator pays the XP required to make the item.
\par Typically, a list of prerequisites includes one feat and one or more spells (or some other requirement in addition to the feat).
\par When two spells at the end of a list are separated by \'93or,\'94 one of those spells is required in addition to every other spell mentioned prior to the last two.
\par \bullet  Market Price: This gold piece value, given following the word \'93Price,\'94 represents the price some
one should expect to pay to buy the item. The market price for an item that can be constructed with an item creation feat is usually equal to the base price plus the price for any components (material or XP).
\par \bullet  Cost to Create: The next part of a notational entry is the cost in gp and XP to create the item, given following the word
\par \'93Cost.\'94 This information appears only for items with components (material or XP), which make their market prices higher than their base prices. The cost to create includes the costs derived from the base cost plus the costs of the components.
\par Items without components do not have a \'93Cost\'94 entry. For them, the market price and the base price are the same. The cost in gp is 1/2 the market price, and the cost in XP is 1/25 the market price.
\par \bullet  Weight: The notational entry for many wondrous items ends with a value for the item\rquote s weight. When a weight figure is not given, the item has no weight worth noting (for purposes of determining how much of a load a character can carry).

\par }{\fs25\cf0 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4157\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 
Table: Random Magic Item Generation\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4157\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx2463\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4157\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Minor\cell Medium\cell Major\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {
\b\fs20\cf0 Item\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2463\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4157\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 01\endash 04\cell 01\endash 10\cell 01\endash 10\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20\cf0 Armor and shields\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2463
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4157\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 05\endash 09\cell 11\endash 20\cell 11\endash 20\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Weapons\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2463\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4157\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 10\endash 44\cell 21
\endash 30\cell 21\endash 25\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Potions\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2463\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4157\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 45\endash 46\cell 31
\endash 40\cell 26\endash 35\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Rings\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2463\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4157\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \emdash \cell 41
\endash 50\cell 36\endash 45\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Rods\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2463\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4157\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 47\endash 81\cell 51
\endash 65\cell 46\endash 55\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Scrolls\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2463\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4157\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \emdash \cell 66
\endash 68\cell 56\endash 75\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Staffs\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2463\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4157\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 82\endash 91\cell 69
\endash 83\cell 76\endash 80\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Wands\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2463\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4157\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx2463\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4157\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 92\endash 100\cell 84\endash 100\cell 81\endash 100\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20\cf0 Wondrous items\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2463\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4157\row 
}\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs36 
\par CREATING MAGIC ITEMS
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\cf0 To create magic items, spellcasters use special feats. They invest time, money, and their own personal energy (in the form of experience points) in an item\rquote s creation.
\par Note that all items have prerequisites in their descriptions. These prerequisites must be met for the item to be created. Most of the time, they take the form of spells that must be known by the item\rquote 
s creator (although access through another magic item or spellcaster is allowed).
\par While item creation costs are handled in detail below, note that normally the two primary factors are the caster level of the creator and the level of the spell or spells put into the item. A creator can create an item at a lower 
caster level than her own, but never lower than the minimum level needed to cast the needed spell. Using metamagic feats, a caster can place spells in items at a higher level than normal.
\par Magic supplies for items are always half of the base price in gp and 1/25 of the base price in XP. For many items, the market price equals the base price.
\par Armor, shields, weapons, and items with a value independent of their magically enhanced properties add their item cost to the market price. The item cost does not influe
nce the base price (which determines the cost of magic supplies and the experience point cost), but it does increase the final market price.
\par In addition, some items cast or replicate spells with costly material components or with XP components. For these i
tems, the market price equals the base price plus an extra price for the spell component costs. Each XP in the component costs adds 5 gp to the market price. The cost to create these items is the magic supplies cost and the base XP cost (both determined b
y the base price) plus the costs for the components. Descriptions of these items include an entry that gives the total cost of creating the item.
\par The creator also needs a fairly quiet, comfortable, and well-lit place in which to work. Any place suitable for preparing spells is suitable for making items. Creating an item requires one day per 1,000 gp in the item\rquote 
s base price, with a minimum of at least one day. Potions are an exception to this rule; they always take just one day to brew. The character must spend the gold and XP at the beginning of the construction process.
\par The caster works for 8 hours each day. He cannot rush the process by working longer each day. But the days need not be consecutive, and the caster can use the rest of his time as he sees fit.
\par A character can work on only one item at a time. If a character starts work on a new item, all materials used and XP spent on the under-construction item are wasted.
\par The secrets of creating artifacts are long lost.}{\fs25\cf0 
\par }{\b\fs21\cf0 
\par }\trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth10700\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth10700 \cellx10585\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Table: Summary of Magic Item Creation Costs\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth10700\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth10700 \cellx10585\row }\trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth10700\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1195 \cellx1080\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1620 \cellx2700\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260 \cellx3960\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2807 \cellx6767
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1873 \cellx8640\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1945 \cellx10585\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 
{\b\fs20\cf0  \cell  \cell  \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Component Costs\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 \cell \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth10700\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1195 \cellx1080\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1620 \cellx2700\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260 \cellx3960\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2807 \cellx6767\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1873 \cellx8640
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1945 \cellx10585\row }\trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth10700\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1195 \cellx1080\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1620 \cellx2700\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260 \cellx3960\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1428 \cellx5388\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1379 \cellx6767
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1873 \cellx8640\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1945 \cellx10585\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 
{\b\fs20\cf0 Magic Item \cell Feat \cell Item Cost \cell Material}{\b\fs20\cf0\super 2}{\b\fs20\cf0  \cell XP}{\b\fs20\cf0\super 3}{\b\fs20\cf0  \cell Magic Supplies Cost \cell Base Price}{\b\fs20\cf0\super 4}{\b\fs20\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth10700\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1195 \cellx1080\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1620 \cellx2700\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260 \cellx3960\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1428 \cellx5388\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1379 \cellx6767
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1873 \cellx8640\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1945 \cellx10585\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Armor \cell Craft Magic Arms and Armor\cell Masterwork armor \cell Cost x 50 (usually none)\cell x 50 (usually none) 
\par x 5 gp\cell 1/2 the value on Table: Armor and Shields\cell Value on Table: Armor and Shields\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth10700\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1195 \cellx1080\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1620 \cellx2700\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260 \cellx3960\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1428 \cellx5388
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1379 \cellx6767\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1873 \cellx8640\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1945 \cellx10585\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Shield  \cell Craft Magic Arms and Armor\cell Masterwork shield \cell x 50 (usually none)\cell x\u-4064\'3f
 50 (usually none) 
\par x 5 gp\cell 1/2 the value on Table: Armor and Shields\cell Value on Table: Armor and Shields\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth10700\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1195 \cellx1080\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1620 \cellx2700\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260 \cellx3960\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1428 \cellx5388
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1379 \cellx6767\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1873 \cellx8640\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1945 \cellx10585\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Weapon \cell Craft Magic Arms and Armor\cell Masterwork weapon \cell x 50 (usually none) \cell x 50 (usually none) 
\par x 5 gp\cell 1/2 the value on Table: Weapons \cell Value on Table: Weapons\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth10700\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1195 \cellx1080\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1620 \cellx2700\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260 \cellx3960\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1428 \cellx5388
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1379 \cellx6767\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1873 \cellx8640\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1945 \cellx10585\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Potion \cell Brew Potion\cell  \emdash  \cell Cost (usually none) \cell Cost (usually none) \cell 
1/2 x 25 x level of spell x level of caster\cell 25 x level of spell x level of caster\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth10700\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1195 \cellx1080\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1620 \cellx2700\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260 \cellx3960\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1428 \cellx5388
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1379 \cellx6767\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1873 \cellx8640\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1945 \cellx10585\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Ring \cell Forge Ring \cell \emdash \cell  x 50 \cell x 50 
\par x 5 gp\cell Special, see Table: Estimating Magic Item Gold Price Values, below\cell Special, see Table: Estimating Magic Item Gold Price Values, below\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth10700\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1195 \cellx1080\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1620 \cellx2700\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260 \cellx3960\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1428 \cellx5388\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1379 \cellx6767\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1873 \cellx8640
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1945 \cellx10585\row }\trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth10700\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA3\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1195 \cellx1080\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1620 \cellx2700\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260 \cellx3960\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1428 \cellx5388\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1379 
\cellx6767\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1873 \cellx8640\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1945 \cellx10585\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Rod \cell Craft Rod \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0\super 1 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 x 50 (often none)\cell x 50 (often none) \cell Special, see Table: Estimating Magic Item Gold Price Values, below\cell 
Special, see Table: Estimating Magic Item Gold Price Values, below\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth10700\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA3\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1195 \cellx1080\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1620 \cellx2700\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260 \cellx3960\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1428 \cellx5388
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1379 \cellx6767\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1873 \cellx8640\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1945 \cellx10585\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Scroll \cell Scribe Scroll \cell \emdash  \cell Cost (usually none) \cell Cost (usually none) \cell 
1/2 x 12.5 x level of spell x level of caster\cell 12.5 x level of spell x level of caster\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth10700\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA3\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1195 \cellx1080\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1620 \cellx2700\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260 \cellx3960\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1428 \cellx5388
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1379 \cellx6767\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1873 \cellx8640\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1945 \cellx10585\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Staff \cell Craft Staff \cell Masterwork quarterstaff (300 gp)\cell x 50 / (# of charges used to activate spell)\cell 
x 50 x 5 gp / (# of charges used to activate spell)\cell See Creating Staffs, below \cell See Creating Staffs, below\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth10700\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA3\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1195 \cellx1080\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1620 \cellx2700\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260 \cellx3960\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1428 
\cellx5388\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1379 \cellx6767\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1873 \cellx8640\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1945 \cellx10585\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Wand \cell Craft Wand \cell \emdash  \cell x 50 \cell x 50 
\par x 5 gp \cell 1/2 x 375 x level of spell x level of caster \u-4064\'3f\cell 375 x level of spell x level of caster\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth10700\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA3\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1195 \cellx1080\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1620 \cellx2700\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260 \cellx3960\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1428 
\cellx5388\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1379 \cellx6767\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1873 \cellx8640\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1945 \cellx10585\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Wondrous
\par  Item \cell Craft Wondrous Item \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0\super 5 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 x 50 (usually none)\cell x 50 (usually none)
\par x 5 gp\cell Special, see Table: Estimating Magic Item Gold Price Values, below\cell Special, see Table: Estimating Magic Item Gold Price Values, below\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth10700\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA3\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1195 \cellx1080\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1620 \cellx2700\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1260 \cellx3960\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1428 \cellx5388\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1379 \cellx6767\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1873 \cellx8640
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1945 \cellx10585\row }\trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth10700\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth10700 \cellx10585\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 1 Rods usable as weapons must include the masterwork weapon cost.\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth10700\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth10700 \cellx10585\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 2 This cost is only for spells activated by the item that have
 material or XP components. Having a spell with a costly component as a prerequisite does not automatically incur this cost if the item doesn\rquote t actually cast the spell. \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth10700\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth10700 \cellx10585\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 3 If purchasing a staff, the buyer pays 5 x the XP value in gold pieces.\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth10700\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth10700 \cellx10585\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 4 A character creating an item pays 1/25 the base price in experience points.\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth10700\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth10700 \cellx10585\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 5 Some items have additional value from a masterwork item component.}{\i\fs20\cf0  }{\fs20\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth10700\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth10700 \cellx10585\row }\trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth10700\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth10700 \cellx10585\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 An item\rquote s market price is the sum of the item cost, spell component costs, and the base price.\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth10700\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth10700 \cellx10585\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs25\cf0 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\pard\plain 
\s8\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel7\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Table: Estimating Magic Item Gold Piece Values}{\b0 \cell }\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3438\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx10188\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Effect \cell Base Price \cell Example\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3438\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx7271\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Ability bonus (enhancement) \cell Bonus squared  x 1,000 gp \cell }{\i\fs20\cf0 
Gloves of Dexterity +2\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3438\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188
\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Armor bonus (enhancement) \cell Bonus squared  x 1,000 gp \cell }{\i\fs20\cf0 +1 chainmail\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\i\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3438\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Bonus spell \cell 
Spell level squared  x 1,000 gp \cell }{\i\fs20\cf0 Pearl of power\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3438\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 AC bonus (deflection) \cell Bonus squared  x 2,000 gp \cell }{\i\fs20\cf0 Ring of protection +3\cell 
}\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3438\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 AC bonus (other)}{\b\fs20\cf0\super 1}{\b\fs20\cf0  \cell }{\fs20\cf0 Bonus squared  x 2,500 gp \cell }{\i\fs20\cf0 Ioun stone, dusty rose prism\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3438\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Natural armor bonus (enhancement) \cell Bonus squared  x 2,000 gp \cell }{\i\fs20\cf0 Amulet of natural armor +1\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3438\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Save bonus (resistance) \cell Bonus squared  x 1,000 gp \cell }{\i\fs20\cf0 Cloak of resistance +5\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 
\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3438\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Save bonus (other)}{\b\fs20\cf0\super 1}{
\b\fs20\cf0  \cell }{\fs20\cf0 Bonus squared  x 2,000 gp \cell }{\i\fs20\cf0 Stone of good luck\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3438\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Skill bonus (competence) \cell Bonus squared  x 100 gp \cell }{\i\fs20\cf0 Cloak of elvenkind\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3438\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Spell resistance \cell 10,000 gp per point over SR 12; 
\par SR 13 minimum \cell }{\i\fs20\cf0 Mantle of spell resistance\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3438\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Weapon bonus (enhancement) \cell Bonus squared  x 2,000 gp \cell }{\i\fs20\cf0 +1 longsword\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3438\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Effect \cell Base Price \cell Example\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3438\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Single use, spell completion \cell Spell level  x caster level  x 25 gp \cell Scroll of }{\i\fs20\cf0 haste
\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3438\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Single use, use-activated \cell Spell level  x caster level  x 50 gp \cell }{\i\fs20\cf0 Potion of cure light wounds\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3438\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 50 charges, spell trigger \cell Spell level  x caster level  x 750 gp \cell }{\i\fs20\cf0 Wand of fireball\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\i\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3438\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Command word \cell 
Spell level  x caster level  x 1,800 gp \cell }{\i\fs20\cf0 Cape of the mountebank\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3438\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Use-activated or continuous \cell Spell level  x caster level  x 2,000 gp}{\b\fs20\cf0\super 2}{
\b\fs20\cf0  \cell }{\i\fs20\cf0 Lantern of revealing\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3438\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Special \cell Base Price Adjustment \cell Example\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3438\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Charges per day \cell Divide by (5 divided by charges per day) \cell }{\i\fs20\cf0 Boots of teleportation\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\i\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3438\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Uncustomary space limitation}{
\b\fs20\cf0\super 3}{\b\fs20\cf0  \cell }{\fs20\cf0 Multiply entire cost by 1.5 \cell }{\i\fs20\cf0 Helm of teleportation\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3438\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx7271\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 No space limitation}{\b\fs20\cf0\super 4}{\b\fs20\cf0  \cell }{\fs20\cf0 
Multiply entire cost by 2 \cell }{\i\fs20\cf0 Ioun stone\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3438\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Multiple different abilities \cell Multiply higher item cost by 2 \cell }{\i\fs20\cf0 Helm of brilliance
\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3438\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Charged (50 charges) \cell 1/2 unlimited use base price \cell }{\i\fs20\cf0 Ring of the ram\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3438\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Component \cell Extra Cost \cell Example\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3438\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Armor, shield, or weapon \cell Add cost of masterwork item \cell }{\i\fs20\cf0 +1 composite longbow\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\i\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3438\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Spell has material component cost \cell 
Add directly into price of item per charge}{\b\fs20\cf0\super 5}{\b\fs20\cf0  \cell }{\i\fs20\cf0 Wand of stoneskin\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3438\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx7271\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Spell has XP cost \cell Add 5 gp per 1 XP per charge}{\b\fs20\cf0\super 5}{\b\fs20\cf0 
 \cell }{\i\fs20\cf0 Ring of three wishes\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3438\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 Spell Level: }{\fs20\cf0 A 0-level spell is half the value of a 1st-level spell for determining price.\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 1 Such as a luck, insight, sacred, or profane bonus.\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 2 If a contin
uous item has an effect based on a spell with a duration measured in rounds, multiply the cost by 4. If the duration of the spell is 1 minute/level, multiply the cost by 2, and if the duration is 10 minutes/level, multiply the cost by 1.5. If the spell ha
s a 24-hour duration or greater, divide the cost in half.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
3 See Body Slot Affinities, below.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
4 An item that does not take up one of the spaces on a body costs double.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
5 If item is continuous or unlimited, not charged, determine cost as if it had 100 charges. If it has some daily limit, determine as if it had 50 charges.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\fs25\cf0 
\par }{\fs20\cf0 MAGIC ITEM GOLD PIECE VALUES
\par Many factors must be considered when determining the price of new mag
ic items. The easiest way to come up with a price is to match the new item to an item that is already priced that price as a guide. Otherwise, use the guidelines summarized on Table: Estimating Magic Item Gold Piece Values.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Multiple Similar Abilities: }{\fs20\cf0 For items with multiple similar abilities that don\rquote t take up space on a character\rquote 
s body use the following formula: Calculate the price of the single most costly ability, then add 75% of the value of the next most costly ability, plus one-half the value of any other abilities.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Multiple Different Abilities: }{\fs20\cf0 
Abilities such as an attack roll bonus or saving throw bonus and a spell-like function are not similar, and their values are simply added together to determine the cost. For items that do take up a space on a character\rquote 
s body each additional power not only has no discount but instead has a 50% increase in price.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 0-Level Spells: }{\fs20\cf0 When multiplying spell levels to determine value, 0- level spells should be treated as 1/2 level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Other Considerations: }{\fs20\cf0 Once you have a final cost figure, reduce that number if either of the following conditions applies:
\par \emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 Item Requires Skill to Use: }{\fs20\cf0 Some items require a specific skill to get them to function. This factor should reduce the cost about 10%.
\par \emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 Item Requires Specific Class or Alignment to Use: }{\fs20\cf0 Even more restrictive than requiring a skill, this limitation cuts the cost by 30%.
\par Prices presented in the magic item descriptions (the gold piece value following the item\rquote s caster level) are the market value, which is generally twice what it costs the creator to make the item.
\par Since different classes get access to certain spells at different levels, the prices for two characters to make the same item might actually be different. An item is only worth two times what the caster of lowest p
ossible level can make it for. Calculate the market price based on the lowest possible level caster, no matter who makes the item.
\par Not all items adhere to these formulas directly. The reasons for this are several. First and foremost, these few formulas aren\rquote 
t enough to truly gauge the exact differences between items. The price of a magic item may be modified based on its actual worth. The formulas only provide a starting point. The pricing of scrolls assumes that, whenever possible, a wizard or cleric creat
ed it. Potions and wands follow the formulas exactly. Staffs follow the formulas closely, and other items require at least some judgment calls.
\par 
\par }{\fs25\cf0 MASTERWORK ITEMS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Masterwork items are extraordinarily well-made items. They are more expensive, but they benefi
t the user with improved quality. They are not magical in any way. However, only masterwork items may be enhanced to become magic armor and weapons. (Items that are not weapons or armor may or may not be masterwork items.)
\par 
\par }{\fs25\cf0 CREATING MAGIC ARMOR
\par }{\fs20\cf0 To create m
agic armor, a character needs a heat source and some iron, wood, or leatherworking tools. He also needs a supply of materials, the most obvious being the armor or the pieces of the armor to be assembled. Armor to be made into magic armor must be masterwor
k armor, and the masterwork cost is added to the base price to determine final market value. Additional magic supplies costs for the materials are subsumed in the cost for creating the magic armor\emdash half the base price of the item.
\par Creating magic armor has a special prerequisite: The creator\rquote 
s caster level must be at least three times the enhancement bonus of the armor. If an item has both an enhancement bonus and a special ability, the higher of the two caster level requirements must be met.
\par Magic armor or a magic shield must have at least a +1 enhancement bonus to have any of the abilities listed on Table: Armor Special Abilities and Table: Shield Special Abilities.
\par If spells are involved in the prerequisites for making the armor, the creator
 must have prepared the spells to be cast (or must know the spells, in the case of a sorcerer or bard), must provide any material components or focuses the spells require, and must pay any XP costs required for the spells. The act of working on the armor 
triggers the prepared spells, making them unavailable for casting during each day of the armor\rquote s creation. (That is, those spell slots are expended from his currently prepared spells, just as if they had been cast.)
\par Creating some armor may entail other prerequisites beyond or other than spellcasting. See the individual descriptions for details.
\par Crafting magic armor requires one day for each 1,000 gp value of the base price.
\par Item Creation Feat Required: Craft Magic Arms and Armor.
\par }{\fs25\cf0 
\par CREATING MAGIC WEAPONS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 To c
reate a magic weapon, a character needs a heat source and some iron, wood, or leatherworking tools. She also needs a supply of materials, the most obvious being the weapon or the pieces of the weapon to be assembled. Only a masterwork weapon can become a 
magic weapon, and the masterwork cost is added to the total cost to determine final market value. Additional magic supplies costs for the materials are subsumed in the cost for creating the magic weapon\emdash 
half the base price given on Table: Weapons, according to the weapon\rquote s total effective bonus.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs19\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Creating a magic weapon has a special prerequisite: The creator\rquote 
s caster level must be at least three times the enhancement bonus of the weapon. If an item has both an enhancement bonus and a special ability the higher of the two caster level requirements must be met.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 
A magic weapon must have at least a +1 enhancement bonus to have any of the abilities listed on Table: Melee Weapon Special Abilities or Table Ranged Weapon Special Abilities.
\par If spells are involved in t
he prerequisites for making the weapon, the creator must have prepared the spells to be cast (or must know the spells, in the case of a sorcerer or bard) but need not provide any material components or focuses the spells require, nor are any XP costs inhe
rent in a prerequisite spell incurred in the creation of the item. The act of working on the weapon triggers the prepared spells, making them unavailable for casting during each day of the weapon\rquote 
s creation. (That is, those spell slots are expended from his currently prepared spells, just as if they had been cast.)
\par At the time of creation, the creator must decide if the weapon glows or not as a side-effect of the magic imbued within it. This decision does not affect the price or the creation time, but once the item is finished, the decision is binding.
\par Creating magic double-headed weapons is treated as creating two weapons when determining cost, time, XP, and special abilities.
\par Creating some weapons may entail other prerequisites beyond or other than spellcasting. See the individual descriptions for details.
\par Crafting a magic weapon requires one day for each 1,000 gp value of the base price.
\par Item Creation Feat Required: Craft Magic Arms and Armor.
\par }{\fs25\cf0 
\par CREATING POTIONS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 The creator of a potion needs a level working 
surface and at least a few containers in which to mix liquids, as well as a source of heat to boil the brew. In addition, he needs ingredients. The costs for materials and ingredients are subsumed in the cost for brewing the potion\emdash 25 gp x\u-4064
\'3f the level of the spell x \u-4064\'3fthe level of the caster.
\par All ingredients and materials used to brew a potion must be fresh and unused. The character must pay the full cost for brewing each potion. (Economies of scale do not apply.)
\par The imbiber of the potion is both the caster and the target. Spells with a range of personal cannot be made into potions.
\par The creator must have prepared the spell to be placed in the potion (or must know the spell, in the case of a sorcerer or bard) and must provide any material component or focus the spell requires.
\par If casting the spell would reduce the caster\rquote s XP total, he pays the XP cost upon beginning the brew in addition to the XP cost for making the potion itself. Material components are consumed when he begins working, but a focus is not. (A 
focus used in brewing a potion can be reused.) The act of brewing triggers the prepared spell, making it unavailable for casting until the character has rested and regained spells. (That is, that spell slot is expended from his currently prepared spells, 
just as if it had been cast.) Brewing a potion requires one day.
\par Item Creation Feat Required: Brew Potion.
\par }\trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth5819 \cellx5704\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 
Potion Base Prices (By Brewer\rquote s Class)}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth5819 \cellx5704\row }\trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth870 \cellx3512\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1020 \cellx4532\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1172 \cellx5704\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Level}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 Clr, Drd, Wiz}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 Sor}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 Brd}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 Pal, Rgr*}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell 
}\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth870 
\cellx3512\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1020 \cellx4532\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1172 \cellx5704\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 0}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 25 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 25 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 25 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth870 \cellx3512
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1020 \cellx4532\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1172 \cellx5704\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 1st}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 50 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 50 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 100 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 100 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth870 \cellx3512
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1020 \cellx4532\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1172 \cellx5704\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 2nd}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 300 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 400 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 400 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 400 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth870 \cellx3512
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1020 \cellx4532\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1172 \cellx5704\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 3rd}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 750 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 900 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 1,050 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 750 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth870 \cellx3512
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1020 \cellx4532\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1172 \cellx5704\row }\trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth5819 \cellx5704\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
* Caster level is half class level.}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth5819 \cellx5704\row }\trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth5819 \cellx5704\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Prices assume that the potion was made at the minimum caster level.}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth5819 \cellx5704\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }\trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6391 \cellx6276\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 
Base Cost to Brew a Potion (By Brewer\rquote s Class)}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6391 \cellx6276\row }\trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1149 \cellx3791\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1149 \cellx4940\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1336 \cellx6276\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Level}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 Clr, Drd, Wiz}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 Sor}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 Brd}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 Pal, Rgr*}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell 
}\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1149 
\cellx3791\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1149 \cellx4940\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1336 \cellx6276\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 0}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 12 gp 5 sp
\par +1 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 12 gp 5 sp
\par +1 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 12 gp 5 sp
\par +1 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 
\cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1149 \cellx3791\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1149 \cellx4940\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1336 \cellx6276\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 1st}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 25 gp
\par +2 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 25 gp
\par +2 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 50 gp
\par +4 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 50 gp
\par +4 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1149 \cellx3791\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1149 \cellx4940\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1336 \cellx6276\row 
}\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 2nd}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 150 gp
\par +12 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 200 gp
\par +16 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 200 gp
\par +16 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 200 gp
\par +16 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1149 \cellx3791\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1149 \cellx4940\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1336 \cellx6276\row 
}\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 3rd}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 375 gp
\par +30 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 450 gp
\par +36 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 525 gp
\par +42 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 375 gp
\par +30 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1149 \cellx3791\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1149 \cellx4940\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1336 \cellx6276\row 
}\trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6391 \cellx6276\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 * Caster level is half class level.}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6391 \cellx6276\row }\trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6391 \cellx6276\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
Costs assume that the creator makes the potion at the minimum caster level.}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6391 \cellx6276\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs25\cf0 
\par CREATING RINGS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 To create a magic ring, a character needs a heat source. He also n
eeds a supply of materials, the most obvious being a ring or the pieces of the ring to be assembled. The cost for the materials is subsumed in the cost for creating the ring. Ring costs are difficult to formularize. Refer to Table: Estimating Magic Item G
old Piece Values and use the ring prices in the ring descriptions as a guideline. Creating a ring generally costs half the ring\rquote s market price.
\par Rings that duplicate spells with costly material or XP components add in the value of 50 x the spell\rquote s component 
cost. Having a spell with a costly component as a prerequisite does not automatically incur this cost. The act of working on the ring triggers the prepared spells, making them unavailable for casting during each day of the ring\rquote 
s creation. (That is, those spell slots are expended from his currently prepared spells, just as if they had been cast.)
\par Creating some rings may entail other prerequisites beyond or other than spellcasting. See the individual descriptions for details.
\par Forging a ring requires one day for each 1,000 gp of the base price.
\par Item Creation Feat Required: Forge Ring.
\par }{\fs25\cf0 
\par CREATING RODS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 To create a magic rod, a character needs a supply of materials, the most obvious being a rod or the pieces of the rod to be assembled. 
The cost for the materials is subsumed in the cost for creating the rod. Rod costs are difficult to formularize. Refer to Table: Estimating Magic Item Gold Piece Values and use the rod prices in the rod descriptions as a guideline. Creating a rod costs ha
lf the market value listed.
\par If spells are involved in the prerequisites for making the rod, the creator must have prepared the spells to be cast (or must know the spells, in the case of a sorcerer or bard) but need not provide any material components or foc
uses the spells require, nor are any XP costs inherent in a prerequisite spell incurred in the creation of the item. The act of working on the rod triggers the prepared spells, making them unavailable for casting during each day of the rod\rquote 
s creation. (That is, those spell slots are expended from his currently prepared spells, just as if they had been cast.)
\par Creating some rods may entail other prerequisites beyond or other than spellcasting. See the individual descriptions for details.
\par Crafting a rod requires one day for each 1,000 gp of the base price.
\par Item Creation Feat Required: Craft Rod.
\par }{\fs25\cf0 
\par CREATING SCROLLS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 To create a scroll, a character needs a supply of choice writing materials, the cost of which is subsumed in the cost for scribing the scroll\emdash 12.5 gp x the level of the spell x the level of the caster.
\par All writing implements and materials used to scribe a scroll must be fresh and unused. A character must pay the full cost for scribing each spell scroll no matter how many times she previously has scribed the same spell.
\par The creator must have prepared the spell to be scribed (or must know the spell, in the case of a sorcerer or bard) and must provide any material component or focus the spell requires. If casting the spell would reduce the caster\rquote s XP total
, she pays the cost upon beginning the scroll in addition to the XP cost for making the scroll itself. Likewise, a material component is consumed when she begins writing, but a focus is not. (A focus used in scribing a scroll can be reused.) The act of wr
iting triggers the prepared spell, making it unavailable for casting until the character has rested and regained spells. (That is, that spell slot is expended from her currently prepared spells, just as if it had been cast.)
\par Scribing a scroll requires one day per each 1,000 gp of the base price.
\par Item Creation Feat Required: Scribe Scroll.
\par }\trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6184 \cellx6069\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 
Scroll Base Prices (By Scriber\rquote s Class)}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6184 \cellx6069\row }\trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1148 \cellx3790\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1148 \cellx4938\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1131 \cellx6069\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Level}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 Clr, Drd, Wiz}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 Sor}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 Brd}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 Pal, Rgr*}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell 
}\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1148 
\cellx3790\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1148 \cellx4938\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1131 \cellx6069\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 0}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 12 gp 5 sp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 12 gp 5 sp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 12 gp 5 sp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1148 \cellx3790
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1148 \cellx4938\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1131 \cellx6069\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 1st}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 25 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 25 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 50 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 50 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1148 \cellx3790
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1148 \cellx4938\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1131 \cellx6069\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 2nd}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 150 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 200 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 200 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 200 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1148 \cellx3790
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1148 \cellx4938\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1131 \cellx6069\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 3rd}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 375 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 450 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 525 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 375 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1148 \cellx3790
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1148 \cellx4938\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1131 \cellx6069\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 4th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 700 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 800 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 1,000 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 700 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1148 \cellx3790
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1148 \cellx4938\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1131 \cellx6069\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 5th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 1,125 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 1,250 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 1,625 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1148 \cellx3790
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1148 \cellx4938\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1131 \cellx6069\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 6th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 1,650 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 1,800 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 2,400 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1148 \cellx3790
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1148 \cellx4938\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1131 \cellx6069\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 7th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 2,275 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 2,450 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1148 \cellx3790
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1148 \cellx4938\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1131 \cellx6069\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 8th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 3,000 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 3,200 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1148 \cellx3790
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1148 \cellx4938\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1131 \cellx6069\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 9th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 3,825 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 4,050 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1148 \cellx3790
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1148 \cellx4938\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1131 \cellx6069\row }\trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6184 \cellx6069\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 *
 Caster level is half class level.}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6184 \cellx6069\row }\trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6184 \cellx6069\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Prices assume that the scroll was made at the minimum caster level.}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6184 \cellx6069\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }\trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6882 \cellx6767\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 
Base Magic Supplies and XP Cost to Scribe a Scroll (By Scriber\rquote s Class)}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6882 \cellx6767\row }\trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1438 \cellx4080\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1438 \cellx5518\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1249 \cellx6767\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Level}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 Clr, Drd, Wiz}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 Sor}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 Brd}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 Pal, Rgr*}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell 
}\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1438 
\cellx4080\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1438 \cellx5518\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1249 \cellx6767\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 0}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 6 gp 2 sp 5 cp
\par +1 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 6 gp 2 sp 5 cp
\par +1 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 6 gp 2 sp 5 cp
\par +1 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 
\cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1438 \cellx4080\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1438 \cellx5518\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1249 \cellx6767\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 1st}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 12 gp 5 sp
\par +1 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 12 gp 5 sp
\par +1 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 25 gp
\par +1 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 25 gp
\par +2 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1438 \cellx4080\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1438 \cellx5518\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1249 \cellx6767\row 
}\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 2nd}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 75 gp
\par +6 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 100 gp
\par +8 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 100 gp
\par +8 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 100 gp
\par +8 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1438 \cellx4080\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1438 \cellx5518\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1249 \cellx6767\row 
}\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 3rd}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 187 gp 5 sp
\par +15 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 225 gp
\par +18 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 262 gp 5 sp
\par +21 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 187 gp 5 sp
\par +15 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1438 \cellx4080\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1438 \cellx5518\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1249 \cellx6767\row 
}\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 4th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 350 gp
\par +28 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 400 gp
\par +32 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 500 gp
\par +40 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 350 gp
\par +28 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1438 \cellx4080\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1438 \cellx5518\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1249 \cellx6767\row 
}\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 5th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 562 gp 5 sp
\par +45 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 625 gp
\par +50 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 812 gp 5 sp
\par +65 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 
\cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1438 \cellx4080\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1438 \cellx5518\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1249 \cellx6767\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 6th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 826 gp
\par +66 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 900 gp
\par +72 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 1,200 gp
\par +96 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 
\cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1438 \cellx4080\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1438 \cellx5518\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1249 \cellx6767\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 7th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 1,135 gp 5 sp
\par +91 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 1,225 gp
\par +98 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 
\cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1438 \cellx4080\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1438 \cellx5518\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1249 \cellx6767\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 8th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 1,500 gp
\par +120 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 1,600 gp
\par +128 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 
\cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1438 \cellx4080\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1438 \cellx5518\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1249 \cellx6767\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 9th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 1,912 gp 5 sp
\par +153 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 2, 025 gp
\par +162 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 
\cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1438 \cellx4080\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1438 \cellx5518\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1249 \cellx6767\row }\trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6882 \cellx6767\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 * Caster level is half class level.}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 
\trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6882 \cellx6767\row }\trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6882 \cellx6767\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
Costs assume that the creator makes the scroll at the minimum caster level.}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6882 \cellx6767\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs25\cf0 
\par CREATING STAFFS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 To create a magic staff, a character needs a supply of materials, the most obvious being a staff or the pieces of the staff to be assembled.
\par The cost for the materials is subsumed in the cost for creating the staff\emdash 375 gp x the level of the highest-level s
pell x the level of the caster, plus 75% of the value of the next most costly ability (281.25 gp x the level of the spell x the level of the caster), plus one-half of the value of any other abilities (187.5 gp x the level of the spell x the level of the c
aster). Staffs are always fully charged (50 charges) when created.
\par If desired, a spell can be placed into the staff at only half the normal cost, but then activating that particular spell costs 2 charges from the staff. The caster level of all spells in a s
taff must be the same, and no staff can have a caster level of less than 8th, even if all the spells in the staff are low-level spells.
\par The creator must have prepared the spells to be stored (or must know the spell, in the case of a sorcerer or bard) and m
ust provide any focus the spells require as well as material and XP component costs sufficient to activate the spell a maximum number of times (50 divided by the number of charges one use of the spell expends). This is in addition to the XP cost for makin
g
 the staff itself. Material components are consumed when he begins working, but focuses are not. (A focus used in creating a staff can be reused.) The act of working on the staff triggers the prepared spells, making them unavailable for casting during eac
h day of the staff \rquote s creation. (That is, those spell slots are expended from his currently prepared spells, just as if they had been cast.)
\par Creating a few staffs may entail other prerequisites beyond spellcasting. See the individual descriptions for details.
\par Crafting a staff requires one day for each 1,000 gp of the base price.
\par Item Creation Feat Required: Craft Staff.
\par }{\fs25\cf0 
\par CREATING WANDS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 To create a magic wand, a character needs a small supply of materials, the most obvious being a baton or the pieces of the wand to be assembled. The cost for the materials is subsumed in the cost for creating the wand\emdash 
375 gp x the level of the spell x the level of the caster. Wands are always fully charged (50 charges) when created.
\par The creator must have prepared the spell to be stored (or must know the spell, in the case of a sorcerer or bard) and must provide any focuses the spell requires. Fifty of each needed m
aterial component are required, one for each charge. If casting the spell would reduce the caster\rquote 
s XP total, she pays the cost (multiplied by 50) upon beginning the wand in addition to the XP cost for making the wand itself. Likewise, material components 
are consumed when she begins working, but focuses are not. (A focus used in creating a wand can be reused.) The act of working on the wand triggers the prepared spell, making it unavailable for casting during each day devoted to the wand\rquote 
s creation. (That is, that spell slot is expended from her currently prepared spells, just as if it had been cast.)
\par Crafting a wand requires one day per each 1,000 gp of the base price.
\par Item Creation Feat Required: Craft Wand.
\par 
\par }\trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6128 \cellx6013\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 
Wand Base Prices (By Crafter\rquote s Class)}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6128 \cellx6013\row }\trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1120 \cellx3762\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1120 \cellx4882\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1131 \cellx6013\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Level}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 Clr, Drd, Wiz}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 Sor}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 Brd}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 Pal, Rgr*}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell 
}\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1120 
\cellx3762\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1120 \cellx4882\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1131 \cellx6013\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 0}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 375 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 375 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 375 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1120 \cellx3762
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1120 \cellx4882\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1131 \cellx6013\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 1st}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 750 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 750 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 1,500 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 1,500 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1120 \cellx3762
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1120 \cellx4882\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1131 \cellx6013\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 2nd}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 4,500 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 6,000 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 6,000 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 6,000 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1120 \cellx3762
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1120 \cellx4882\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1131 \cellx6013\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 3rd}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 11,250 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 13,500 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 15,750 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 11,250 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1120 \cellx3762
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1120 \cellx4882\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1131 \cellx6013\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 4th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 21,000 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 24,000 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 30,000 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 21,000 gp}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1120 \cellx3762
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1120 \cellx4882\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1131 \cellx6013\row }\trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6128 \cellx6013\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
* Caster level is half class level.}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6128 \cellx6013\row }\trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6128 \cellx6013\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Prices assume that the wand was made at the minimum caster level.}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6128 \cellx6013\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\fs21\cf0 
\par }\trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6420 \cellx6305\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 
Base Magic Supplies and XP Cost to Craft a Wand (By Crafter\rquote s Class)}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6420 \cellx6305\row }\trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1249 \cellx3891\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1249 \cellx5140\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1165 \cellx6305\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Level}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 Clr, Drd, Wiz}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 Sor}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 Brd}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 Pal, Rgr*}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell 
}\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1249 
\cellx3891\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1249 \cellx5140\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1165 \cellx6305\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 0}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 187 gp 5 sp
\par +15 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 187 gp 5 sp
\par +15 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 187 gp 5 sp
\par +15 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 
\cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1249 \cellx3891\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1249 \cellx5140\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1165 \cellx6305\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 1st}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 375 gp
\par +30 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 375 gp
\par +30 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 750 gp
\par +60 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 750 gp
\par +60 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1249 \cellx3891\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1249 \cellx5140\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1165 \cellx6305\row 
}\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 2nd}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 2,250 gp
\par +180 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 3,000 gp
\par +240 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 3,000 gp
\par +240 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 3,000 gp
\par +240 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1249 \cellx3891\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1249 \cellx5140\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1165 \cellx6305\row 
}\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 3rd}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 5,625 gp
\par +450 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 6,750 gp
\par +540 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 7,875 gp
\par +630 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 5,625 gp
\par +450 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1249 \cellx3891\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1249 \cellx5140\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1165 \cellx6305\row 
}\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 4th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 10,500 gp
\par +840 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 12,000 gp
\par +960 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 15,000 gp
\par +1200 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 10,500 gp
\par +840 XP}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1259 \cellx1144\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1498 \cellx2642\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1249 \cellx3891\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1249 \cellx5140\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1165 \cellx6305\row 
}\trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6420 \cellx6305\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 * Caster level is half class level.}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6420 \cellx6305\row }\trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6420 \cellx6305\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
Costs assume that the creator makes the wand at the minimum caster level.}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph115\trleft-115\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trpaddl115\trpaddr115\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6420 \cellx6305\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs25\cf0 
\par CREATING WONDROUS ITEMS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 
To create a wondrous item, a character usually needs some sort of equipment or tools to work on the item. She also needs a supply of materials, the most obvious being the item itself or the pieces of the item to be assembled. The cost for the materials is
 
subsumed in the cost for creating the item. Wondrous item costs are difficult to formularize. Refer to Table: Estimating Magic Item Gold Piece Values and use the item prices in the item descriptions as a guideline. Creating an item costs half the market v
alue listed.
\par If spells are involved in the prerequisites for making the item, the creator must have prepared the spells to be cast (or must know the spells, in the case of a sorcerer or bard) but need not provide any material components or focuses the spell
s require, nor are any XP costs inherent in a prerequisite spell incurred in the creation of the item. The act of working on the item triggers the prepared spells, making them unavailable for casting during each day of the item\rquote 
s creation. (That is, those spell slots are expended from his currently prepared spells, just as if they had been cast.)
\par Creating some items may entail other prerequisites beyond or other than spellcasting. See the individual descriptions for details.
\par Crafting a wondrous item requires one day for each 1,000 gp of the base price.
\par Item Creation Feat Required: Craft Wondrous Item.
\par }{\fs25\cf0 
\par INTELLIGENT ITEM CREATION
\par }{\fs20\cf0 
To create an intelligent item, a character must have a caster level of 15th or higher. Time and creation cost are based on the normal item creation rules, with the market price values on Table: Item Intelligence, Wisdom, Charisma, and Capabilities treated
 as additions to time, gp cost, and XP cost. The item\rquote s alignment is the same as its creator\rquote s. Determine other features randomly, following the guidelines in the relevant section.
\par }{\fs25\cf0 
\par ADDING NEW ABILITIES
\par }{\fs20\cf0 A creator can add new magical abilities to a magic item with no restrictions. The cost to do this is the same as if the item was not magical. Thus, a }{\i\fs20\cf0 +1 longsword }{\fs20\cf0 can be made into a }{\i\fs20\cf0 +2 vorpal longsword}{
\fs20\cf0 , with the cost to create it being equal to that of a }{\i\fs20\cf0 +2 vorpal sword }{\fs20\cf0 minus the cost of a }{\i\fs20\cf0 +1 sword}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par If the item is one that occupies a specific place on a character\rquote s body the cost of adding any additional ability to that item increases by 50%. For example, if a character adds the power to confer }{\i\fs20\cf0 invisibility }{\fs20\cf0 to her }{
\i\fs20\cf0 ring of protection +2}{\fs20\cf0 , the cost of adding this ability is the same as for creating a }{\i\fs20\cf0 ring of invisibility }{\fs20\cf0 multiplied by 1.5.
\par 
\par BODY SLOT AFFINITIES
\par Each location on the body, or body slot, has one or more affinities: a word or phrase that describes the general function or nature of magic items designed 
for that body slot. Body slot affinities are deliberately broad, abstract categorizations, because a hard-and-fast rule can\rquote t cover the great variety among wondrous items.
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {You can use the affinities in the list below to guide your decisions on which magic 
items should be allowed in which body slots. And when you design your own magic items, the affinities give you some guidance for what form a particular item should take.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Some body slots have different affinities for different specific items. 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2448 \cellx2340\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3249 \cellx5589\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Body Slot\cell Affinity\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2448 \cellx2340\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3249 \cellx5589\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2448 \cellx2340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3249 \cellx5589\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Headband, helmet\cell 
Mental improvement, ranged attacks\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2448 \cellx2340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3249 \cellx5589\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Hat\cell Interaction\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2448 \cellx2340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3249 \cellx5589\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Phylactery\cell Morale, alignment\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2448 \cellx2340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3249 \cellx5589\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Eye lenses, goggles\cell Vision\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2448 \cellx2340\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3249 \cellx5589\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Cloak, cape, mantle\cell Transformation, protection\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2448 \cellx2340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3249 \cellx5589\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
Amulet, brooch, medallion, necklace, periapt, scarab\cell Protection, discernment\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2448 \cellx2340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3249 \cellx5589\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Robe \cell Multiple effects\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2448 \cellx2340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3249 \cellx5589\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Shirt \cell Physical improvement\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2448 \cellx2340\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3249 \cellx5589\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Vest, vestment \cell Class ability improvement\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2448 \cellx2340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3249 \cellx5589\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Bracers \cell Combat
\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2448 \cellx2340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3249 \cellx5589\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Bracelets \cell 
Allies\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2448 \cellx2340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3249 \cellx5589\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Gloves \cell 
Quickness\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2448 \cellx2340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3249 \cellx5589\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
Gauntlets \cell Destructive power\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2448 \cellx2340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3249 \cellx5589\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Belt \cell Physical improvement\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2448 \cellx2340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3249 \cellx5589\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2448 \cellx2340
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3249 \cellx5589\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Boots \cell Movement\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2448 \cellx2340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3249 \cellx5589\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\cf0 Wondrous items that don\rquote 
t match the affinity for a particular body slot should cost 50% more than wondrous items that match the affinity.}{
\par }}