{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New{\*\falt Courier};}{\f90\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial Unicode MS;}{\f111\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}@Arial Unicode MS;}
{\f164\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f165\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f167\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f168\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f169\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f170\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f171\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f172\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f173\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f175\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f176\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}
{\f177\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}{\f178\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f179\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f180\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f181\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr{\*\falt Courier};}{\f183\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek{\*\falt Courier};}{\f184\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f185\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier};}{\f186\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic){\*\falt Courier};}{\f187\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f886\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Western;}{\f884\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS CE;}{\f885\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Cyr;}{\f887\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Greek;}
{\f888\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Tur;}{\f889\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Hebrew);}{\f890\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Arabic);}{\f891\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Baltic;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}
{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs18\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs17\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{
\s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs46\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 4;}{\s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel4\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 5;}{\s6\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel5\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 6;}{\*\cs10 
\additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\cs15 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f90\hich\af90\dbch\af90\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Normal (Web);}{\s17\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\v\fs16\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f1\hich\af1\dbch\af90\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \shidden HTML Top of Form;}{\s18\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\v\fs16\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f1\hich\af1\dbch\af90\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \shidden HTML Bottom of Form;}{\s19\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar
\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext19 Preformatted;}}{\info{\title MONSTER FEATS}{\author AKSmith}
{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2003\mo6\dy3\hr14\min55}{\revtim\yr2003\mo7\dy2\hr13\min21}{\version13}{\edmins19}{\nofpages4}{\nofwords1322}{\nofchars7540}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws9259}{\vern8283}}
\margl1080\margr1080\margt1080\margb1080 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1080\dgvorigin1080\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 
This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{\f0\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs46\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs36 MONSTER FEATS
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 These feats apply to abilities most commonly found amongst monsters or are related to monsters.
\par }{\cf0 
\par ABILITY FOCUS }{\fs20\cf0  [GENERAL]}{\cf0 
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Choose one of the creature\rquote s special attacks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisite:}{\fs20\cf0  Special attack.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  Add +2 to the DC for all saving throws against the special attack on which the creature focuses.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  A creature can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time the creature takes the feat it applies to a different special attack.
\par }{\cf0 
\par AWESOME BLOW }{\fs20\cf0 [GENERAL, FIGHTER]}{\cf0 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisites:}{\fs20\cf0  Str 25, Power Attack, Improved Bull Rush, size Large or larger.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0 
 As a standard action, the creature may choose to subtract 4 from its melee attack roll and deliver an awesome blow. If the creature hits a corporeal opponent smaller than itself with an awesome blow, its opponent must succeed on a Reflex save (DC = damag
e dealt) or be knocked flying 10 feet in a direction of the attacking creature\rquote s choice and fall prone. The attacking creature can only push the opponent in a straight line, and the opponent can\rquote 
t move closer to the attacking creature than the square it started in. If an obstacle prevents the completion of the opponent\rquote 
s move, the opponent and the obstacle each take 1d6 points of damage, and the opponent stops in the space adjacent to the obstacle.
\par }{\cf0 
\par CRAFT CONSTRUCT }{\fs20\cf0 [ITEM CREATION]}{\cf0 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisites:}{\fs20\cf0  Craft Magic Arms and Armor, Craft Wondrous Item.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  A creature with this feat can create any construct whose prerequisites it meets. Enchanting a construct takes one day for each 1,000 gp in its market price. To enchant a construct, a spellcaster must spend 1/25 the item
\rquote s price in XP and use up raw materials costing half of this price (see individual construct monster entries for details).
\par A creature with this feat can repair constructs that have taken damage. In one day of work, the creature can repair up to 20 points of damage by expending 50 gp per point of damage repaired.
\par A newly created construct has average hit points for its Hit Dice.
\par }{\cf0 
\par }{EMPOWER SPELL-LIKE ABILITY }{\fs20  [GENERAL]}{
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisite:}{\fs20  Spell-like ability at caster level 6th or higher.
\par }{\b\fs20 Benefit:}{\fs20  Choose one of the creature\rquote 
s spell-like abilities, subject to the restrictions below. The creature can use that ability as an empowered spell-like ability three times per day (or less, if the ability is normally usable only once or twice per day).
\par When a creature uses an empowered spell-like ability, all variable, numeric effects of the spell-like ability are increased by one half. Saving throws and opposed rolls are not affected. Spell-like abilities without random variables are not affected.

\par The creature can only select a spell-like ability duplicating a spell with a level less than or equal to half its caster level (round down) \endash 2. For a summary, see the table in the description of the Quicken Spell-Like Ability feat. 
\par }{\b\fs20 Special:}{\fs20  This feat can be taken multiple times. Each time it is taken, the creature can apply it to a different one of its spell-like abilities.
\par }{\cf0 
\par FLYBY ATTACK }{\fs20\cf0  [GENERAL]}{\cf0 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisite:}{\fs20\cf0  Fly speed.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  When flying, the creature can take a move action (including a dive) and another standard action at any point during the move. The creature cannot take a second move action during a round when it makes a flyby attack.

\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Normal: }{\fs20\cf0 Without this feat, the creature takes a standard action either before or after its move.
\par }{\cf0 
\par HOVER }{\fs20\cf0  [GENERAL]}{\cf0 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisite:}{\fs20\cf0  Fly speed.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  When flying, the creature can halt its forward motion and hover in place as a move action. It can then fly in any direction, including straight down or straight up, at half speed, regardless of its maneuverability.

\par If a creature begi
ns its turn hovering, it can hover in place for the turn and take a full-round action. A hovering creature cannot make wing attacks, but it can attack with all other limbs and appendages it could use in a full attack. The creature can instead use a breath
 weapon or cast a spell instead of making physical attacks, if it could normally do so.
\par If a creature of Large size or larger hovers within 20 feet of the ground in an area with lots of loose debris, the draft from its wings creates a hemispherical cloud wi
th a radius of 60 feet. The winds so generated can snuff torches, small campfires, exposed lanterns, and other small, open flames of non-magical origin. Clear vision within the cloud is limited to 10 feet. Creatures have concealment at 15 to 20 feet (20% 
miss chance). At 25 feet or more, creatures have total concealment (50% miss chance, and opponents cannot use sight to locate the creature).
\par Those caught in the cloud must succeed on a Concentration check (DC 10 + 1/2 creature\rquote s HD) to cast a spell.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Normal: }{\fs20\cf0 Without this feat, a creature must keep moving while flying unless it has perfect maneuverability.
\par }{\cf0 
\par IMPROVED NATURAL ARMOR }{\fs20\cf0  [GENERAL]}{\cf0 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisites:}{\fs20\cf0  Natural armor, Con 13.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  The creature\rquote s natural armor bonus increases by 1.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  A creature can gain this feat multiple times. Each time the creature takes the feat its natural armor bonus increases by another point.
\par }{\cf0 
\par IMPROVED NATURAL ATTACK }{\fs20\cf0  [GENERAL]}{\cf0 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisite:}{\fs20\cf0  Natural weapon, base attack bonus +4.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  Choose one of the creature\rquote s natural attack forms. The damage for this natural weapon increases by one step, as if the creature\rquote 
s size had increased by one category: 1d2, 1d3, 1d4, 1d6, 1d8, 2d6, 3d6, 4d6, 6d6, 8d6, 12d6. 
\par A weapon or attack that deals 1d10 points of damage increases as follows: 1d10, 2d8, 3d8, 4d8, 6d8, 8d8, 12d8.
\par }{\cf0 
\par MULTIATTACK }{\fs20\cf0  [GENERAL]}{\cf0 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisite:}{\fs20\cf0  Three or more natural attacks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  The creature\rquote s secondary attacks with natural weapons take only a \endash 2 penalty.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Normal:}{\fs20\cf0  Without this feat, the creature\rquote s secondary attacks with natural weapons take a \endash 5 penalty.
\par }{\cf0 
\par MULTIWEAPON FIGHTING }{\fs20\cf0  [GENERAL]}{\cf0 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisites:}{\fs20\cf0  Dex 13, three or more hands.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  Penalties for fighting with multiple weapons are reduced by 2 with the primary hand and reduced by 6 with off hands.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Normal:}{\fs20\cf0  A creature without this feat takes a \endash 6 penalty on attacks made with its primary hand and a \endash 
10 penalty on attacks made with its off hands. (It has one primary hand, and all the others are off hands.) See Two-Weapon Fighting}{\i\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  This feat replaces the Two-Weapon Fighting feat for creatures with more than two arms.}{\fs19\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 
\par QUICKEN SPELL-LIKE ABILITY }{\fs20\cf0  [GENERAL]}{\cf0 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisite:}{\fs20\cf0  Spell-like ability at caster level 10th or higher.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefit:}{\fs20\cf0  Choose one of the creature\rquote s spell-like abilities, subject to the 
restrictions described below. The creature can use that ability as a quickened spell-like ability three times per day (or less, if the ability is normally usable only once or twice per day).
\par Using a quickened spell-like ability is a free action that does not provoke an attack of opportunity. The creature can perform another action\emdash including the use of another spell-like ability\emdash 
in the same round that it uses a quickened spell-like ability. The creature may use only one quickened spell-like ability per round.
\par The creature can only select a spell-like ability duplicating a spell with a level less than or equal to half its caster level (round down) \endash 4. For a summary, see the table below.
\par In addition, a spell-like ability that duplicates a spell with a casting time greater than 1 full round cannot be quickened.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Normal: }{\fs20\cf0 Normally the use of a spell-like ability requires a standard action and provokes an attack of opportunity unless noted otherwise.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0  This feat can be taken multiple times. Each time it is taken, the creature can apply it to a different one of its spell-like abilities.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4068 \cellx3960\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {
\b\fs20\cf0 Empower and Quicken Spell-Like Ability}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4068 \cellx3960\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1245 \cellx1137\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1383 \cellx2520\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440 \cellx3960\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Level}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{
\b\fs20\cf0 Caster Level to Empower}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 Caster Level to Quicken}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1245 \cellx1137\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1383 \cellx2520\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440 \cellx3960\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 0}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 4th}{
\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 8th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1245 \cellx1137\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1383 \cellx2520\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440 \cellx3960\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 1st}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 6th}{
\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 10th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1245 \cellx1137\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1383 \cellx2520\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440 \cellx3960\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 2nd}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 8th}{
\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 12th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1245 \cellx1137\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1383 \cellx2520\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440 \cellx3960\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 3rd}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 10th}
{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 14th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1245 \cellx1137\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1383 \cellx2520\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440 \cellx3960\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 4th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 12th}
{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 16th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1245 \cellx1137\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1383 \cellx2520\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440 \cellx3960\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 5th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 14th}
{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 18th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1245 \cellx1137\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1383 \cellx2520\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440 \cellx3960\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 6th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 16th}
{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 20th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1245 \cellx1137\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1383 \cellx2520\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440 \cellx3960\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 7th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 18th}
{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1245 \cellx1137\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1383 \cellx2520\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440 \cellx3960\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 8th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 20th}
{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1245 \cellx1137\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1383 \cellx2520\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440 \cellx3960\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1245 \cellx1137\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1383 \cellx2520\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440 \cellx3960\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 9th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1245 \cellx1137\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1383 \cellx2520\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440 \cellx3960\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\cf0 
\par SNATCH }{\fs20\cf0  [GENERAL]}{\cf0 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisite:}{\fs20\cf0  Size Huge or larger.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefits:}{\fs20\cf0  The creature 
can choose to start a grapple when it hits with a claw or bite attack, as though it had the improved grab special attack. If the creature gets a hold on a creature three or more sizes smaller, it squeezes each round for automatic bite or claw damage. A sn
atched opponent held in the creature\rquote s mouth is not allowed a Reflex save against the creature\rquote s breath weapon, if it has one.
\par The creature can drop a creature it has snatched as a free action or use a standard action to fling it aside. A flung creature tra
vels 1d6 x 10 feet, and takes 1d6 points of damage per 10 feet traveled. If the creature flings a snatched opponent while flying, the opponent takes this amount or falling damage, whichever is greater.
\par }{\cf0 
\par WINGOVER }{\fs20\cf0  [GENERAL]}{\cf0 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prerequisite:}{\fs20\cf0  Fly speed.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Benefits:}{\fs20\cf0 
 A flying creature with this feat can change direction quickly once each round as a free action. This feat allows it to turn up to 180 degrees regardless of its maneuverability, in addition to any other turns it is normally allowed. A creature cannot gain
 altitude during a round when it executes a wingover, but it can dive.
\par The change of direction consumes 10 feet of flying movement.}{
\par }}