{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New{\*\falt Courier};}{\f164\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f165\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f167\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f168\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f169\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f170\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f171\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f180\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f181\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr{\*\falt Courier};}{\f183\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek{\*\falt Courier};}{\f184\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f185\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier};}{\f186\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic){\*\falt Courier};}{\f187\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic{\*\falt Courier};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{\*\cs10 
\additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs19\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Body Text;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Body Text 2;}{\s17\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 Preformatted;}}{\info{\title ADVENTURING}{\author AKSmith}{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2003\mo4\dy25\hr11\min30}{\revtim\yr2003\mo7\dy2\hr13\min26}
{\printim\yr2003\mo6\dy2\hr17}{\version70}{\edmins248}{\nofpages4}{\nofwords5668}{\nofchars32313}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws39682}{\vern8283}}\margl1080\margr1080\margt1080\margb1080 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1080\dgvorigin1080\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 
This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{\f0\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {PLANES
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs25\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 WHAT IS A PLANE?
\par }{\fs20\cf0 The planes of existence are different realities with interwoven connections. Except for rare linking points, each plane is effectively its own universe with its own natural laws. 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 The planes break down into a number of general type
s: the Material Plane, the Transitive Planes, the Inner Planes, the Outer Planes, and the demiplanes.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 Material Plane: }{\fs20\cf0 
The Material Plane tends to be the most Earthlike of all planes and operates under the same set of natural laws that our own real world does. This is the default plane for most adventures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Transitive Planes:}{\fs20\cf0  These three planes have one important common 
characteristic: Each is used to get from one place to another. The Astral Plane is a conduit to all other planes, while the Ethereal Plane and the Plane of Shadow both serve as means of transportation within the Material Plane they\rquote 
re connected to. These planes have the strongest regular interaction with the Material Plane and are often accessed by using various spells. They have native inhabitants as well.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Inner Planes:}{\fs20\cf0  These six planes are manifestations of the basic building blocks of the universe. Each 
is made up of a single type of energy or element that overwhelms all others. The natives of a particular Inner Plane are made of the same energy or element as the plane itself.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Outer Planes:}{\fs20\cf0  The deities live on the Outer Planes, as do creatures such as cel
estials, demons, and devils. Each of the Outer Planes has an alignment, representing a particular moral or ethical outlook, and the natives of each plane tend to behave in agreement with that plane\rquote 
s alignment. The Outer Planes are also the final resting place of souls from the Material Plane, whether that final rest takes the form of calm introspection or eternal damnation.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Demiplanes:}{\fs20\cf0  This catch-all category covers all extradimensional spaces that function like planes but have measurable size and limited 
access. Other kinds of planes are theoretically infinite in size, but a demiplane might be only a few hundred feet across.
\par }{\fs18\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 PLANAR TRAITS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Each plane of existence has its own properties\emdash the natural laws of its universe.
\par Planar traits are broken down into a number of general areas.
\par 
\par All planes have the following kinds of traits.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Physical Traits:}{\fs20\cf0  These traits determine the laws of physics and nature on the plane, including how gravity and time function.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Elemental and Energy Traits:}{\fs20\cf0  These traits determine the dominance of particular elemental or energy forces.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Alignment Traits:}{\fs20\cf0  Just as characters may be lawful neutral or chaotic good, many planes are tied to a particular moral or ethical outlook.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Magic Traits:}{\fs20\cf0  Magic works differently from plane to plane, and magic traits set the boundaries for what it can and can\rquote t do.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0\fs24 Physical Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 
The two most important natural laws set by physical traits are how gravity works and how time passes. Other physical traits pertain to the size and shape of a plane and how easily a plane\rquote s nature can be altered.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Gravity:}{\fs20\cf0  The direction of gravity\rquote s pull may be unusual, and it might even change directions within the plane itself.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Normal Gravity: }{\fs20\cf0 Most planes have gravity similar to that of the Material Plane. The usual rules fo
r ability scores, carrying capacity, and encumbrance apply. Unless otherwise noted in a description, it is assumed every plane has the normal gravity trait.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Heavy Gravity: }{\fs20\cf0 The gravity on a plane with this trait is much more intense than on the Material Plane. As a result, Balance, Climb, Jump, Ride, Swim, and Tumble checks incur a \endash 
2 circumstance penalty, as do all attack rolls. All item weights are effectively doubled, which might affect a character\rquote s speed. Weapon ranges are halved. A character\rquote s Strength
 and Dexterity scores are not affected. Characters who fall on a heavy gravity plane take 1d10 points of damage for each 10 feet fallen, to a maximum of 20d10 points of damage.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Light Gravity: }{\fs20\cf0 The gravity on a plane with this trait is less intense than on t
he Material Plane. As a result, creatures find that they can lift more, but their movements tend to be ungainly. Characters on a plane with the light gravity trait take a \endash 
2 circumstance penalty on attack rolls and Balance, Ride, Swim, and Tumble checks. All items weigh half as much. Weapon ranges double, and characters gain a +2 circumstance bonus on Climb and Jump checks.
\par Strength and Dexterity don\rquote t change as a result of light gravity, but what you can do with such scores does change. These advantages apply to travelers from other planes as well as natives.
\par Falling characters on a light gravity plane take 1d4 points of damage for each 10 feet of the fall (maximum 20d4).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 No Gravity: }{\fs20\cf0 Individuals on a plane with this trait merely float in space, unless other resources are available to provide a direction for gravity\rquote s pull.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Objective Directional Gravity: }{\fs20\cf0 The strength of gravity on a plane with this trait is the same as on the Material Plane, but the direction is not the traditional \'93down\'94 toward the ground. I
t may be down toward any solid object, at an angle to the surface of the plane itself, or even upward.
\par In addition, objective directional gravity may change from place to place. The direction of \'93down\'94 may vary.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Subjective Directional Gravity: }{\fs20\cf0 The strength of gravity on a plane with this trait is the same as on the Material Plane, but each individual chooses the direction of gravity\rquote 
s pull. Such a plane has no gravity for unattended objects and nonsentient creatures. This sort of environment can be very disorienting to the newcomer, but is common on \'93weightless\'94 planes.
\par Characters on a plane with subjective directional gravity can move normally along a solid surface by imagining \'93down\'94 near their feet. If suspended in midair, a character \'93flies\'94 by merely choosing a \'93down\'94 direction and \'93falling\'94
 that way. Under such a procedure, an individual \'93falls\'94 150 feet in the first round and 300 feet in each succeeding round. Movement is straight-line only. In order to stop, one has to slow one\rquote s movement by changing the designated \'93down
\'94 direction (again, moving 150 feet in the new direction in the first round and 300 feet per round thereafter).
\par It takes a DC 16 Wisdom check to set a new direction of gravity as a free action; this check can be made once per round. Any character who fails this Wisdom check in successive rounds receives a +6 bonus on subsequent checks until he or she succeeds.

\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Time:}{\fs20\cf0  The rate of time\rquote s passage can vary on different planes, though it remains constant within any particular plane. Time is a
lways subjective for the viewer. The same subjectivity applies to various planes. Travelers may discover that they\rquote ll pick up or lose time while moving among the planes, but from their point of view, time always passes naturally.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Normal Time: }{\fs20\cf0 This trait de
scribes the way time passes on the Material Plane. One hour on a plane with normal time equals one hour on the Material Plane. Unless otherwise noted in a description, every plane has the normal time trait.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Timeless: }{\fs20\cf0 On planes with this trait, time still p
asses, but the effects of time are diminished. How the timeless trait can affect certain activities or conditions such as hunger, thirst, aging, the effects of poison, and healing varies from plane to plane.
\par The danger of a timeless plane is that once one leaves such a plane for one where time flows normally, conditions such as hunger and aging do occur retroactively. 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Flowing Time: }{\fs20\cf0 On some planes, time can flow faster or slower. One may travel to another plane, spend a year there, then return to the Materi
al Plane to find that only six seconds have elapsed. Everything on the plane returned to is only a few seconds older. But for that traveler and the items, spells, and effects working on him, that year away was entirely real.
\par When designating how time works on planes with flowing time, put the Material Plane\rquote s flow of time first, followed by the same flow in the other plane. 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Erratic Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Some planes have time that slows down and speeds up, so an individual may lose or gain time as he moves between the two planes. The following is provided as an example.
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1512 
\cellx2220\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1620 \cellx3840\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 d%\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Time on Material Plane\cell 
Time on Erratic Time Plane\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1512 \cellx2220\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1620 \cellx3840\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1512 \cellx2220\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1620 \cellx3840\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 01\endash 10\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 1 day\cell 1 round\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1512 \cellx2220
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1620 \cellx3840\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 11\endash 40\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
1 day\cell 1 hour\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1512 \cellx2220\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1620 \cellx3840\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 41\endash 60\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 1 day\cell 1 day\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1512 \cellx2220\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1620 \cellx3840\row 
}\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 61\endash 90\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 1 hour\cell 1 day\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1512 \cellx2220\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1620 \cellx3840\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1512 \cellx2220\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1620 \cellx3840\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 91\endash 100\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 1 round\cell 1 day\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1512 \cellx2220\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1620 \cellx3840\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\fs20\cf0 To the denizens of such a plane, time flows naturally and the shift is unnoticed.
\par If a plane is timeless with respect to magic, any spell cast with a noninstantaneous duration is permanent until dispelled.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Shape and Size:}{\fs20\cf0  Planes come in a variety of sizes and shapes. Most planes are infinite, or at least so large that they may as well be infinite.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Infinite: }{\fs20\cf0 Planes with this trait go on forever, though they may have finite components within them. Or they may consist of ongoing expanses in two directions, like a map that stretches out infinitely.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Finite Shape: }{\fs20\cf0 A plane with this trait has defined edges or borders. These borders may adjoin other planes or hard, finite borders such as the edge of the world or a great wall. Demiplanes are often finite.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Self-Contained Shape: }{\fs20\cf0 On planes with this trait, the borders wrap in on themselves, depositi
ng the traveler on the other side of the map. A spherical plane is an example of a self-contained, finite plane, but there can be cubes, toruses, and flat planes with magical edges that teleport the traveler to an opposite edge when he crosses them. 

\par Some demiplanes are self-contained.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Morphic Traits:}{\fs20\cf0  This trait measures how easily the basic nature of a plane can be changed. Some planes are responsive to sentient thought, while others can be manipulated only by extremely powerful creatures. And some planes
 respond to physical or magical efforts.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Alterable Morphic: }{\fs20\cf0 On a plane with this trait, objects remain where they are (and what they are) unless affected by physical force or magic. You can change the immediate environment as a result of tangible effort. 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Highly Morphic: }{\fs20\cf0 On a plane with this trait, features of the plane change so frequently that it\rquote 
s difficult to keep a particular area stable. Such planes may react dramatically to specific spells, sentient thought, or the force of will. Others change for no reason. 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Magically Morphic: }{\fs20\cf0 Specific spells can alter the basic material of a plane with this trait.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Divinely Morphic: }{\fs20\cf0 Specific unique beings (deities or similar great powers) have the ability to alter objects, creatures, and the landscape on planes with 
this trait. Ordinary characters find these planes similar to alterable planes in that they may be affected by spells and physical effort. But the deities may cause these areas to change instantly and dramatically, creating great kingdoms for themselves. 

\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Static: }{\fs20\cf0 These planes are unchanging. Visitors cannot affect living residents of the plane, nor objects that the denizens possess. Any spells that would affect those on the plane have no effect unless the plane\rquote 
s static trait is somehow removed or suppressed. Spells cast before entering a plane with the static trait remain in effect, however.
\par Even moving an unattended object within a static plane requires a DC 16 Strength check. Particularly heavy objects may be impossible to move.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Sentient: }{\fs20\cf0 These planes are ones that respond to a single thought\emdash  that of the plane itself. Travelers would find the plane\rquote 
s landscape changing as a result of what the plane thought of the travelers, either becoming more or less hospitable depending on its reaction.
\par }{\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0\fs24 Elemental and Energy Traits
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
Four basic elements and two types of energy together make up everything. The elements are earth, air, fire, and water. The types of energy are positive and negative.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs19\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 The Material Plane reflects a balancing of those elements and energies; all 
are found there. Each of the Inner Planes is dominated by one element or type of energy. Other planes may show off various aspects of these elemental traits. Many planes have no elemental or energy traits; these traits are noted in a plane\rquote 
s description only when they are present.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i\fs20\cf0 Air-Dominant:}{\fs20\cf0 
 Mostly open space, planes with this trait have just a few bits of floating stone or other elements. They usually have a breathable atmosphere, though such a plane may include clouds of acidic or toxic gas. Creatures 
of the earth subtype are uncomfortable on air-dominant planes because they have little or no natural earth to connect with. They take no actual damage, however.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Earth-Dominant:}{\fs20\cf0  Planes with this trait are mostly solid. Travelers who arrive run the risk of suffocation if they don\rquote 
t reach a cavern or other pocket within the earth. Worse yet, individuals without the ability to burrow are entombed in the earth and must dig their way out (5 feet per turn). Creatures of the air subtype are uncomfortable on earth d
ominant planes because these planes are tight and claustrophobic to them. But they suffer no inconvenience beyond having difficulty moving.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Fire-Dominant: }{\fs20\cf0 
Planes with this trait are composed of flames that continually burn without consuming their fuel source. Fire-dominant planes are extremely hostile to Material Plane creatures, and those without resistance or immunity to fire are soon immolated.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs19\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Unprotecte
d wood, paper, cloth, and other flammable materials catch fire almost immediately, and those wearing unprotected flammable clothing catch on fire. In addition, individuals take 3d10 points of fire damage every round they are on a fire-dominant plane. Crea
tures of the water subtype are extremely uncomfortable on fire-dominant planes. Those that are made of water take double damage each round.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i\fs20\cf0 Water-Dominant:}{\fs20\cf0  Planes with this trait are mostly liquid. Visitors who can\rquote 
t breathe water or reach a pocket of air will likely drown. Creatures of the fire subtype are extremely uncomfortable on water-dominant planes. Those made of fire take 1d10 points of damage each round.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Positive-Dominant: }{\fs20\cf0 An abundance of life characterizes planes with this trait. The two kinds of p
ositive-dominant traits are minor positive-dominant and major positive-dominant. A minor positive-dominant plane is a riotous explosion of life in all its forms. Colors are brighter, fires are hotter, noises are louder, and sensations are more intense as 
a result of the positive energy swirling through the plane. All individuals in a positive-dominant plane gain fast healing 2 as an extraordinary ability.
\par Major positive-dominant planes go even further. A creature on a major positive-dominant plane must make
 a DC 15 Fortitude save to avoid being blinded for 10 rounds by the brilliance of the surroundings. Simply being on the plane grants fast healing 5 as an extraordinary ability. In addition, those at full hit points gain 5 additional temporary hit points p
e
r round. These temporary hit points fade 1d20 rounds after the creature leaves the major positive- dominant plane. However, a creature must make a DC 20 Fortitude save each round that its temporary hit points exceed its normal hit point total. Failing the
 saving throw results in the creature exploding in a riot of energy, killing it.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Negative-Dominant:}{\fs20\cf0  Planes with this trait are vast, empty reaches that suck the life out of travelers who cross them. They tend to be lonely, haunted planes, drained of color a
nd filled with winds bearing the soft moans of those who died within them. As with positive-dominant planes, negative-dominant planes can be either minor or major. On minor negative-dominant planes, living creatures take 1d6 points of damage per round. At
 0 hit points or lower, they crumble into ash.
\par Major negative-dominant planes are even more severe. Each round, those within must make a DC 25 Fortitude save or gain a negative level. A creature whose negative levels equal its current levels or Hit Dice is slain, becoming a wraith. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 
death ward }{\fs20\cf0 spell protects a traveler from the damage and energy drain of a negative-dominant plane.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0\fs24 Alignment Traits
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Some planes have a predisposition to a certain alignment. Most of the inhabitants of these planes also have the plane\rquote 
s particular alignment, even powerful creatures such as deities. In addition, creatures of alignments contrary to the plane have a tougher time dealing with its natives and situations.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 The alignment trait of a plane affects social interactions th
ere. Characters who follow other alignments than most of the inhabitants do may find life more difficult.
\par Alignment traits have multiple components. First are the moral (good or evil) and ethical (lawful or chaotic) components; a plane can have either a mo
ral component, an ethical component, or one of each. Second, the specific alignment trait indicates whether each moral or ethical component is mildly or strongly evident.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Good-Aligned/Evil-Aligned: }{\fs20\cf0 These planes have chosen a side in the battle of good versus evil. No plane can be both good-aligned and evil-aligned.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Law-Aligned/Chaos-Aligned:}{\fs20\cf0  Law versus chaos is the key struggle for these planes and their residents. No plane can be both law-aligned and chaos-aligned.
\par 
\par Each part of the moral/ethical alignment trait has a descriptor, either \'93mildly\'94 or \'93strongly,\'94 to show how powerful the influence of alignment is on the plane.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Mildly Aligned: }{\fs20\cf0 Creatures who have an alignment opposite that of a mildly aligned plane take a \endash 2 circumstance penalty on all Charisma-based checks.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Strongly Aligned:}{\fs20\cf0  On planes that are strongly aligned, a \endash 2 circumstance penalty applies on all Charisma-based checks made by all creatures not of the plane\rquote s alignment. In addition, the \endash 
2 penalty affects all Intelligence-based and Wisdom-based checks, too.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs19\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 The penalties for the moral and ethical components of the alignment trait do stack.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i\fs20\cf0 
\par Neutral-Aligned:}{\fs20\cf0  A mildly neutral-aligned plane does not apply a circumstance penalty to anyone.
\par The Material Plane is considered mildly neutral-aligned, though it may contain high concentrations of evil or good, law or chaos in places.
\par A strongly neutral-aligned plane would stand in opposition to all other moral and ethical principles: good, evil, la
w, and chaos. Such a plane may be more concerned with the balance of the alignments than with accommodating and accepting alternate points of view. In the same fashion as for other strongly aligned planes, strongly neutral-aligned planes apply a \endash 
2 circumstance penalty to Intelligence-, Wisdom-, or Charisma-based checks by any creature that isn\rquote 
t neutral. The penalty is applied twice (once for law/chaos, and once for good/evil), so neutral good, neutral evil, lawful neutral, and chaotic neutral creatures take a \endash 
2 penalty and lawful good, chaotic good, chaotic evil, and lawful evil creatures take a \endash 4 penalty.
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0\fs18 
\par }{\b0\fs24 Magic Traits}{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 A plane\rquote 
s magic trait describes how magic works on the plane compared to how it works on the Material Plane. Particular locations on a plane (such as those under the direct control of deities) may be pockets where a different magic trait applies.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i\fs20\cf0 Normal Magic:}{\fs20\cf0 
 This magic trait means that all spells and supernatural abilities function as written. Unless otherwise noted in a description, every plane has the normal magic trait.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Wild Magic:}{\fs20\cf0  On a plane with the wild magic trait spells and spell-like abilities function in radically different and sometimes dangerous ways. Any spell or spell-like ability used on a wild magic plane has a chance to g
o awry. The caster must make a level check (DC 15 + the level of the spell or effect) for the magic to function normally. For spell-like abilities, use the level or HD of the creature employing the ability for the caster level check and the level of the s
pell-like ability to set the DC for the caster level check. Failure on this check means that something strange happens; roll d% and consult the following table.
\par 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx808\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth9380 \cellx10188\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 d%\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Effect\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx808\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth9380 \cellx10188\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx808\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth9380 \cellx10188\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
01\endash 19\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Spell rebounds on caster with normal effect. If the spell cannot affect the caster, it simply fails.\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx808\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth9380 \cellx10188\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 20\endash 23\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 A circular pit 15 feet wide opens under the caster\rquote s feet; it is 10 feet deep per level of the caster.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx808\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth9380 \cellx10188\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 24\endash 27\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
The spell fails, but the target or tar
gets of the spell are pelted with a rain of small objects (anything from flowers to rotten fruit), which disappear upon striking. The barrage continues for 1 round. During this time the targets are blinded and must make Concentration checks (DC 15 + spell
 level) to cast spells.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx808\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth9380 \cellx10188\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20\cf0 28\endash 31\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
The spell affects a random target or area. Randomly choose a different target from among those in range of the spell or center the spell at a random place within range of the spell. To generate direction randomly, roll 1d8 and
 count clockwise around the compass, starting with south. To generate range randomly, roll 3d6. Multiply the result by 5 feet for close range spells, 20 feet for medium range spells, or 80 feet for long range spells.\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx808\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth9380 \cellx10188\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 32\endash 35\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 The spell functions normally, but any material components are not consumed. The spell is not expended from the caster\rquote 
s mind (a spell slot or prepared spell can be used again). An item does not lose charges, and the effect does not count against an item\rquote s or spell-like ability\rquote s use limit. \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx808\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth9380 \cellx10188\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 36\endash 39\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 The spell does not function. Instead, everyone (friend or foe) within 30 feet of the caster receives the effect of a }{\i\fs20\cf0 heal }{\fs20\cf0 spell.\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx808\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth9380 \cellx10188\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 40\endash 43\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 The spell does not function. Instead, a }{\i\fs20\cf0 deeper darkness }{\fs20\cf0 and a }{\i\fs20\cf0 silence }{\fs20\cf0 effect cover a 30-foot radius around the caster for 2d4 rounds.\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx808\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth9380 \cellx10188\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 44\endash 47\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 The spell does not function. Instead, a }{\i\fs20\cf0 reverse gravity }{\fs20\cf0 effect covers a 30-foot radius around the caster for 1 round. \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx808\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth9380 \cellx10188\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 48\endash 51\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 The spell functions, but shimmering colors swirl around the caster for 1d4 rounds. Treat this a }{\i\fs20\cf0 glitterdust }{\fs20\cf0 
effect with a save DC of 10 + the level of the spell that generated this result.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx808\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth9380 \cellx10188\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 52\endash 59\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
Nothing happens. The spell does not function. Any material components are used up. The spell or spell slot is used up, and charges or uses from an item are used up.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx808\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth9380 \cellx10188\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 60\endash 71\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
Nothing happens. The spell does not function. Any material components are not consumed. The spell is not expended from the caster\rquote 
s mind (a spell slot or prepared spell can be used again). An item does not lose charges, and the effect does not count against an item\rquote s or spell-like ability\rquote s use limit.\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx808\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth9380 \cellx10188\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 72\endash 98\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 The spell functions normally.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx808\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth9380 \cellx10188\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx808\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth9380 \cellx10188\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 99\endash 100\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 The spell functions strongly. Saving t
hrows against the spell incur a \endash 2 penalty. The spell has the maximum possible effect, as if it were cast with the Maximize Spell feat. If the spell is already maximized with the feat, there is no further effect. \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx808\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth9380 \cellx10188\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\i\fs20\cf0 
\par Impeded Magic:}{\fs20\cf0  Particular spells and spell-like abilities are more difficult to cast on planes with this trait, often because the nature of the plane interferes with the spell.}{\i\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\fs20\cf0 To cast an impeded spell, the caster must make a Spellcraft check (DC 20 + the level of the s
pell). If the check fails, the spell does not function but is still lost as a prepared spell or spell slot. If the check succeeds, the spell functions normally.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Enhanced Magic:}{\fs20\cf0  Particular spells and spell-like abilities are easier to use or more powerful in effect on planes with this trait than they are on the Material Plane.
\par Natives of a plane with the enhanced magic trait are aware of which spells and spell-like abilities are enhanced, but planar travelers may have to discover this on their own.
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 If a spel
l is enhanced, certain metamagic feats can be applied to it without changing the spell slot required or the casting time. Spellcasters on the plane are considered to have that feat or feats for the purpose of applying them to that spell. Spellcasters nati
ve to the plane must gain the feat or feats normally if they want to use them on other planes as well.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i\fs20\cf0 Limited Magic:}{\fs20\cf0 
 Planes with this trait permit only the use of spells and spell-like abilities that meet particular qualifications.
\par Magic can be limited to effects from certain schools or subschools, to effects with certain descriptors, or to effects of a certain level (or any combination of these qualities). Spells and spell-like abilities that don\rquote 
t meet the qualifications simply don\rquote t work.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Dead Magic: }{\fs20\cf0 These planes have no magic at all. A plane with the dead magic trait functions in all respects like an }{\i\fs20\cf0 antimagic field }{\fs20\cf0 
spell. Divination spells cannot detect subjects within a dead magic plane, nor can a spellcaster use }{\i\fs20\cf0 teleport }{\fs20\cf0 or another spell to move in or out. The only exception to the \'93no magic\'94
 rule is permanent planar portals, which still function normally.
\par }{\fs18\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 HOW PLANES INTERACT
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Separate Planes:}{\fs20\cf0  Two planes that are separate do not overlap or directly connect to each other. They are like planets in different orbits. The only way to get from one separate plane to the other is to go through a third plane.

\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Coterminous Planes:}{\fs20\cf0  Planes that touch at specific points are coterminous. Where they touch, a connection exists, and travelers can leave one reality behind and enter the other.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Coexistent Planes:}{\fs20\cf0 
 If a link between two planes can be created at any point, the two planes are coexistent. These planes overlap each other completely. A coexistent plane can be reached from anywhere on the plane it overlaps. When mov
ing on a coexistent plane, it is often possible to see into or interact with the plane it coexists with. 
\par 
\par Layered Planes
\par Infinities may be broken into smaller infinities, and planes into smaller, related planes. These laye
rs are effectively separate planes of existence, and each layer can have its own planar traits. Layers are connected to each other through a variety of planar gates, natural vortices, paths, and shifting borders.
\par Access to a layered plane from elsewhere us
ually happens on a specific layer: the first layer of the plane, which can be either the top layer or the bottom layer, depending on the specific plane. Most fixed access points (such as portals and natural vortices) reach this layer, which makes it the g
ateway for other layers of the plane. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 plane shift }{\fs20\cf0 spell also deposits the spellcaster on the first layer of the plane.
\par }{\fs37\cf0 
\par PLANE DESCRIPTIONS
\par }{\cf0 
\par THE MATERIAL PLANE
\par }{\fs20\cf0 The Material Plane is the center of most cosmologies and defines what is considered normal.
\par The Material Plane has the following traits:
\par \bullet  Normal gravity.
\par \bullet  Normal Time
\par \bullet  Alterable morphic.
\par \bullet  No Elemental or Energy Traits (specific locations may have these traits, however)
\par \bullet  Mildly neutral-aligned.
\par \bullet  Normal magic. 
\par }{\fs18\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 THE ETHEREAL PLANE
\par }{\fs20\cf0 The Etherea
l Plane is coexistent with the Material Plane and often other planes as well. The Material Plane itself is visible from the Ethereal Plane, but it appears muted and indistinct, its colors blurring into each other and its edges turning fuzzy.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs19\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 While it is po
ssible to see into the Material Plane from the Ethereal Plane, the Ethereal Plane is usually invisible to those on the Material Plane. Normally, creatures on the Ethereal Plane cannot attack creatures on the Material Plane, and vice versa. A traveler on t
he Ethereal Plane is invisible, incorporeal, and utterly silent to someone on the Material Plane. 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 
The Ethereal Plane is mostly empty of structures and impediments. However, the plane has its own inhabitants. Some of these are other ethereal travelers, but the ghosts found here pose a particular peril to those who walk the fog. 
\par It has the following traits.
\par \bullet  No gravity.
\par \bullet  Alterable morphic. The plane contains little to alter, however.
\par \bullet  Mildly neutral-aligned.
\par \bullet  Normal magic. Spells function normally on the Ethereal Plane, though they do not cross into the Material Plane. 
\par The only exceptions are spells and spell-like abilities that have the force descriptor and abjuration spells that affect ethereal beings. Spellcasters on the Material Plane must have some 
way to detect foes on the Ethereal Plane before targeting them with force-based spells, of course. While it\rquote s possible to hit ethereal enemies with a force spell cast on the Material Plane, the reverse isn\rquote 
t possible. No magical attacks cross from the Ethereal Plane to the Material Plane, including force attacks.
\par }{\cf0 
\par PLANE OF SHADOW
\par }{\fs18\cf0 The Plane of Shadow is a dimly lit dimension that is both coterminous to and coexistent with the Material Plane. It overlaps the Material }{\fs20\cf0 Plane much as the Ethereal Plane does, so 
a planar traveler can use the Plane of Shadow to cover great distances quickly.
\par The Plane of Shadow is also coterminous to other planes. With the right spell, a character can use the Plane of Shadow to visit other realities.
\par The Plane of Shadow is a world of black and white; color itself has been bleached from the environment. It is otherwise appears similar to the Material Plane.
\par Despite the lack of light sources, various plants, animals, and humanoids call the Plane of Shadow home.
\par The Plane of Shadow is magically morphic, and parts continually flow onto other planes. As a result, creating a precise map of the plane is next to impossible, despite the presence of landmarks.
\par The Plane of Shadow has the following traits.
\par \bullet  Magically morphic. Certain spells modify the base material of the Plane of Shadow. The utility and power of these spells within the Plane of Shadow make them particularly useful for explorers and natives alike.
\par \bullet  Mildly neutral-aligned.
\par \bullet  Enhanced magic. Spells with the shadow descriptor are enhanced on the Plane of Shadow. Such spells are cast as though they were prepared with the Maximize Spell feat, though they don\rquote t require the higher spell slots.
\par Furthermore, specific spells become more powerful on the Plane of Shadow. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Shadow conjuration }{\fs20\cf0 and }{\i\fs20\cf0 shadow evocation }{\fs20\cf0 
spells are 30% as powerful as the conjurations and evocations they mimic (as opposed to 20%). }{\i\fs20\cf0 Greater shadow conjuration }{\fs20\cf0 and }{\i\fs20\cf0 greater shadow evocation }{\fs20\cf0 are 70% as powerful (not 60%), and a }{\i\fs20\cf0 
shades }{\fs20\cf0 spell conjures at 90% of the power of the original (not 80%).
\par \bullet  Impeded magic. Spells that use or generate light or fire may fizzle when cast on the Plane of Shadow. A spellcaster attempting a spell with the light or fire descriptor must succeed on a Spellcraft che
ck (DC 20 + the level of the spell). Spells that produce light are less effective in general, because all light sources have their ranges halved on the Plane of Shadow.
\par Despite the dark nature of the Plane of Shadow, spells that produce, use, or manipulate darkness are unaffected by the plane.
\par }{\cf0 
\par THE ASTRAL PLANE
\par }{\fs20\cf0 The Astral Plane is the space between the planes. When a character moves through an interplanar portal or projects her spirit to a different plane of existence, she travels through the Astral Plane. 
Even spells that allow instantaneous movement across a plane}{\i\fs20\cf0  }{\fs20\cf0 briefly touch the Astral Plane.
\par The Astral Plane is a great, endless sphere of clear silvery sky, both above and below. Occasional bits of solid matter can be found here, but most of the Astral Plane is an endless, open domain.
\par Both planar travelers and refugees from other planes call the Astral Plane home. 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 The Astral Plane has the following traits.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 \bullet  Subjective directional gravity.
\par \bullet  Timeless. Age, hunger, thirst, poison, and natural healing don\rquote t function in the Astral Plane, though they resume functioning when the traveler leaves the Astral Plane.
\par \bullet  Mildly neutral-aligned.
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 \bullet 
 Enhanced magic. All spells and spell-like abilities used within the Astral Plane may be employed as if they were improved
 by the Quicken Spell feat. Already quickened spells and spell-like abilities are unaffected, as are spells from magic items. Spells so quickened are still prepared and cast at their unmodified level. As with the Quicken Spell feat, only one quickened spe
ll can be cast per round.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs25\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 ELEMENTAL PLANE OF AIR
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 The Elemental Plane of Air is an empty plane, consisting of sky above and sky below.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 The Elemental Plane of Air is the most comfortable and survivable of the Inner Planes, and it is the home of all manner of
 airborne creatures. Indeed, flying creatures find themselves at a great advantage on this plane. While travelers without flight can survive easily here, they are at a disadvantage.
\par The Elemental Plane of Air has the following traits.
\par \bullet  Subjective directional gravity. Inhabitants of the plane determine their own \'93down\'94 direction. Objects not under the motive force of others do not move.
\par \bullet  Air-dominant.
\par \bullet  Enhanced magic. Spells and spell-like abilities that use, manipulate, or create air (including spells of
 the Air domain) are both empowered and enlarged (as if the Empower Spell and Enlarge Spell metamagic feats had been used on them, but the spells don\rquote t require higher-level slots).
\par \bullet  Impeded magic. Spells and spell-like abilities that use or create earth (including spells of the Earth domain and spells that summon earth elementals or outsiders with the earth subtype) are impeded.
\par }{\fs25\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 ELEMENTAL PLANE OF EARTH
\par }{\fs20\cf0 
The Elemental Plane of Earth is a solid place made of rock, soil, and stone. An unwary and unprepared traveler may find himself entombed within this vast solidity of material and have his life crushed into nothingness, his powdered remains a warning to an
y foolish enough to follow.
\par Despite its solid, unyielding nature, the Elemental Plane of Earth is varied in its consistency, ranging from relatively soft soil to veins of heavier and more valuable metal. 
\par The Elemental Plane of Earth has the following traits.
\par \bullet  Earth-dominant.
\par \bullet  Enhanced magic. Spells and spell-like abilities that use, manipulate, or create earth or stone (including those of the Earth domain) are both empowered and extended (as if the Empower Spell and Extend Spell metamagic feats had been u
sed on them, but the spells don\rquote t require higher-level slots). Spells and spell-like abilities that are already empowered or extended are unaffected by this benefit.
\par \bullet  Impeded magic. Spells and spell-like abilities that use or create air (including spells of the Air domain and spells that summon air elementals or outsiders with the air subtype) are impeded.
\par }{\fs25\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 ELEMENTAL PLANE OF FIRE
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Everything is alight on the Elemental Plane of Fire. The ground is nothing more than great, evershifting plates of compressed f
lame. The air ripples with the heat of continual firestorms, and the most common liquid is magma, not water. The oceans are made of liquid flame, and the mountains ooze with molten lava. Fire survives here without need for fuel or air, but flammables brou
ght onto the plane are consumed readily. 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 The Elemental Plane of Fire has the following traits.
\par \bullet  Fire-dominant.
\par \bullet  Enhanced magic. Spells and spell-like abilities with the fire descriptor are both maximized and enlarged (as if the Maximize Spell and Enlarge Spell had been used on them, but the spells don\rquote 
t require higher-level slots). Spells and spell-like abilities that are already maximized or enlarged are unaffected by this benefit.
\par \bullet  Impeded magic. Spells and spell-like abilities that use or create water (including spells of the Water domain and spells that summon water elementals or outsiders with the water subtype) are impeded. 
\par }{\fs25\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 ELEMENTAL PLANE OF WATER
\par }{\fs20\cf0 The Elemental Plane of Water is a sea without a floor or a surface, an entirely fluid environment lit by a diffuse glow. It is one of the more hospitable of the Inner Planes once a traveler gets past the problem of breathing the local medium.

\par The eternal oceans of this plane vary between ice cold and boiling hot, between saline and fresh. They are perpetually in motion, wracked by currents and tides. The plane\rquote 
s permanent settlements form around bits of flotsam and jetsam suspended within this endless liquid. These settlements drift on the tides of the Elemental Plane of Water.
\par The Elemental Plane of Water has the following traits.
\par \bullet  Subjective directional gravity. The gravity here works similar to that of the Elemental Plane of Air. But sinking or rising on the Elemental Plane of Water is slower (and less dangerous) than on the Elemental Plane of Air.
\par \bullet  Water-dominant.
\par \bullet  Enhanced magic. Spells and spell-like abilities that use or create water are both extended and enlarged (as if the Extend Spell and Enlarge Spell metamagic feats had been used on them, but the spells don\rquote t require higher-level slots). Spel
ls and spell-like abilities that are already extended or enlarged are unaffected by this benefit.
\par \bullet  Impeded magic. Spells and spell-like abilities with the fire descriptor (including spells of the Fire domain) are impeded. 
\par }{\cf0 
\par NEGATIVE ENERGY PLANE
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 To an observer, there\rquote 
s little to see on the Negative Energy Plane. It is a dark, empty place, an eternal pit where a traveler can fall until the plane itself steals away all light and life. The Negative Energy Plane is the most hostile of the Inner Planes, and the
 most uncaring and intolerant of life. Only creatures immune to its life-draining energies can survive there. 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 The Negative Energy Plane has the following traits.
\par \bullet  Subjective directional gravity.
\par \bullet  Major negative-dominant. Some areas within the plane have only the minor negative-dominant trait, and these islands tend to be inhabited.
\par \bullet  Enhanced magic. Spells and spell-like abilities that use negative energy are maximized (as if the Maximize Spell metamagic feat had been used on them, but the spells don\rquote 
t require higher-level slots). Spells and spell-like abilities that are already maximized are unaffected by this benefit. Class abilities that use negative energy, such as rebuking and controlling unde
ad, gain a +10 bonus on the roll to determine Hit Dice affected. 
\par \bullet  Impeded magic. Spells and spell-like abilities that use positive energy, including }{\i\fs20\cf0 cure }{\fs20\cf0 spells, are impeded. Characters on this plane take a \endash 10 penalty on Fortitude saving throws made to 
remove negative levels bestowed by an energy drain attack. 
\par Random Encounters: Because the Negative Energy Plane is virtually devoid of creatures, random encounters on the plane are exceedingly rare.
\par }{\fs25\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 POSITIVE ENERGY PLANE
\par }{\fs20\cf0 The Positive Energy Plane has no 
surface and is akin to the Elemental Plane of Air with its wide-open nature. However, every bit of this plane glows brightly with innate power. This power is dangerous to mortal forms, which are not made to handle it. Despite the beneficial effects of the
 
plane, it is one of the most hostile of the Inner Planes. An unprotected character on this plane swells with power as positive energy is force-fed into her. Then, her mortal frame unable to contain that power, she immolates as if she were a small planet c
aught at the edge of a supernova. Visits to the Positive Energy Plane are brief, and even then travelers must be heavily protected.
\par The Positive Energy Plane has the following traits.
\par \bullet  Subjective directional gravity.
\par \bullet  Major positive-dominant. Some regions of the plane have the minor positive-dominant trait instead, and those islands tend to be inhabited.
\par \bullet  Enhanced magic. Spells and spell-like abilities that use positive energy, including }{\i\fs20\cf0 cure }{\fs20\cf0 spells, are maximized (as if the Maximize Spell metamagic feat had been used on them, but the spells don\rquote 
t require higher-level slots). Spells and spell-like abilities that are already maximized are unaffected by this benefit. Class abilities that use positive energy, such as turning and destroying undead, gain a +10 
bonus on the roll to determine Hit Dice affected. (Undead are almost impossible to find on this plane, however.)
\par \bullet  Impeded magic. Spells and spell-like abilities that use negative energy (including }{\i\fs20\cf0 inflict }{\fs20\cf0 spells) are impeded.
\par Random Encounters: Because the Positive Energy Plane is virtually devoid of creatures, random encounters on the plane are exceedingly rare.
\par }}