{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f101\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f102\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f104\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f105\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f106\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f107\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f108\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f117\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}
{\f118\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f120\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f121\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f122\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}
{\f123\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f124\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{
\s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 5;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar
\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Preformatted;}}{\info
{\title This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1}{\author asmith}{\operator asmith}{\creatim\yr2004\mo4\dy7\hr11\min7}{\revtim\yr2004\mo4\dy7\hr11\min11}{\version3}{\edmins1}
{\nofpages4}{\nofwords1800}{\nofchars10265}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8229}}\margl1080\margr1080\margt1080\margb1080 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace78\dgvspace180\dghorigin1080\dgvorigin1080\dghshow2\dgvshow2
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 
This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{\f0\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0\fs36 PSIONIC RACES
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs36 
\par DROMITES
\par }{\bullet  +2 Charisma, \endash 2 Strength, \endash 2 Wisdom
\par \bullet  Monstrous Humanoid: Dromites are not subject to spells or effects that affect humanoids only, such as }{\i charm person }{or }{\i dominate person}{.
\par \bullet  Small: As a Small creature, a dromite gains a +1 size bonus to Armor Class, a +1 size bonus on attack rolls, and a +4 size bonus on Hide checks, but it uses smaller weapons tha
n humans use, and its lifting and carrying limits are three-quarters of those of a Medium character.
\par \bullet  Dromite base land speed is 20 feet.
\par \bullet  Chitin: A dromite\rquote s skin is hardened, almost like an exoskeleton, and grants the character a +3 natural armor bonus
 to AC and one of the following kinds of resistance to energy: cold 5, electricity 5, fire 5, or sonic 5. The player chooses what type of energy resistance is gained when the character is created. (This choice also dictates which caste the dromite belongs
 to.) This natural energy resistance stacks with any future energy resistance gained through other effects.
\par \bullet  Naturally Psionic: Dromites gain 1 bonus power point at 1st level. This benefit does not grant them the ability to manifest powers unless they gain that ability through another source, such as levels in a psionic class.
\par \bullet  Psi-Like Ability: 1/day\emdash }{\i energy ray. }{A dromite always deals the kind of energy damage that its chitin has resistance to (for example, a dromite who has resistance to cold 5 deals cold damage with its }{\i energy ray}{
). Manifester level is equal to 1/2 Hit Dice (minimum 1st). The save DC is Charisma-based.
\par \bullet  Scent: Its antennae give a dromite the scent ability. A dromite can detect opponents by scent within 30 feet. If the opponent is upwind
, the range increases to 60 feet; if downwind, it drops to 15 feet. Strong scents, such as smoke or rotting garbage, can be detected at twice the ranges noted above. Overpowering scents, such as skunk musk or troglodyte stench, can be detected at triple n
ormal range. When a dromite detects a scent, the exact location of the source is not re vealed\emdash 
only its presence somewhere within range. The dromite can take a move action to note the direction of the scent. Whenever the dromite comes within 5 feet of the source, the dromite pinpoints the source\rquote s location.
\par \bullet  Blind-Fight: Its antennae also give a dromite Blind-Fight as a bonus feat.
\par \bullet  Compound Eyes: This feature of its anatomy gives a dromite a +2 racial bonus on Spot checks.
\par \bullet  Automatic Languages: Common. Bonus Languages: Dwarven, Gnome, Goblin, Terran.
\par \bullet  Favored Class: Wilder.
\par \bullet  Level Adjustment: +1.
\par }{\fs36 
\par DUERGAR
\par }{\bullet  +2 Constitution, \endash 4 Charisma
\par \bullet  Medium: As Medium creatures, duergar have no special bonuses or penalties due to their size.
\par \bullet  Duergar base land speed is 20 feet. However, gray dwarves can move at this speed even when wearing medium or heavy armor or when carrying a medium or heavy load (unlike other creatures, whose speed is reduced in such situations).
\par \bullet  Darkvision out to 120 feet.
\par \bullet  Immunity to paralysis, phantasms, and poison.
\par \bullet  +2 racial bonus on saves against spells and spell-like effects.
\par \bullet  Stability: Duergar are exceptionally stable on their feet. A duergar receives a +4 bonus on ability checks made to resist being
 bull rushed or tripped when standing on the ground (but not when climbing, flying, riding or otherwise not standing firmly on the ground).
\par \bullet  Stonecunning: This ability grants a duergar a +2 racial bonus on Search checks to notice unusual stonework, such a
s sliding walls, stonework, traps, new construction (even when built to match the old), unsafe stone surfaces, shaky stone ceilings, and the like. Something that isn\rquote t stone but that is disguised as stone also counts as unusual stonework.
\par A gray dwarf who 
merely comes within 10 feet of unusual stonework can make a Search check as if he were actively searching, and a duergar can use the Search skill to find stonework traps as a rogue can. A duergar can also intuit depth, sensing his approximate depth underg
round as naturally as a human can sense which way is up. Duergar have a sixth sense about stonework, an innate ability that they get plenty of opportunity to practice and hone in their underground homes.
\par \bullet  Psi-Like Abilities: 1/day\emdash }{\i expansion}{, }{\i invisibility}{. These abilities affect only the duergar and whatever he carries. Manifester level is equal to Hit Dice (minimum 3rd).
\par \bullet  Naturally Psionic: Duergar gain 3 bonus power points at 1st level. This benefit does not grant them the ability to manifest powers unless they gain that ability through another source, such as levels in a psionic class.
\par \bullet  +1 racial bonus on attack rolls against orcs (including half-orcs) and goblinoids (including goblins, hobgoblins, and bugbears).
\par \bullet  +4 dodge bonus to Armor Class against creatures of the giant type (such as ogres, trolls, and hill giants).
\par \bullet  Light Sensitivity (Ex): Duergar are dazzled in sunlight or within the radius of a }{\i daylight }{spell.
\par \bullet  Duergar have a +4 racial bonus on Move Silently checks and a +1 racial bonus on Listen and Spot checks. They have a +2 racial bonus on Appraise and Craft checks that are related to stone or metal.
\par \bullet  Automatic Languages: Common, Dwarven, Undercommon. Bonus Languages: Draconic, Giant, Goblin, Orc, Terran.
\par \bullet  Favored Class: Fighter.
\par \bullet  Level Adjustment: +1.
\par }{\fs36 
\par ELANS
\par }{\bullet  \endash 2 Charisma
\par \bullet  Aberration: Elans are not subject to spells or effects that affect humanoids only, such as }{\i charm person }{or }{\i dominate person}{.
\par \bullet  Medium: As Medium creatures, elans have no special bonuses or penalties due to their size.
\par \bullet  Elan base land speed is 30 feet.
\par \bullet  Elans (unlike most aberrations) do not have darkvision.
\par \bullet  Naturally Psionic: Elans gain 2 bonus power points at 1st level. This benefit does not grant them the ability to manifest powers unless they gain that ability through another source, such as levels in a psionic class.
\par \bullet  Resistance (Su): Elans can use psionic energy to increase their resistance to various forms of attack. As an immediate action, an elan can spend 1 power point to gain a +4 racial bonus on saving throws until the beginning of her next action.

\par \bullet  Resilience (Su): When an elan takes damage, she can spend power points to reduce its severity. As an immediate action, she can reduce the damage she is about to take by 2 hit points for every 1 power point she spends.
\par \bullet  Repletion (Su): An elan can sustain her body without need of food or water. If she spends 1 power point, an elan does not need to eat or drink for 24 hours.
\par \bullet  Automatic Language: Common. Bonus Languages: Any (other than secret languages, such as Druidic). Elans\rquote  past lives expose them to wide ranges of language.
\par \bullet  Favored Class: Psion.
\par \bullet  Level Adjustment: +0.
\par }{\fs36 
\par HALF-GIANTS
\par }{\bullet  +2 Strength, +2 Constitution, \endash 2 Dexterity: Half-giants are tough and strong, but not too nimble.
\par \bullet  Giant: Half-giants are not subject to spells or effects that affect humanoids only, such as }{\i charm person }{or }{\i dominate person}{.
\par \bullet  Medium: As Medium creatures, half-giants have no special bonuses or penalties due to their size.
\par \bullet  Half-giant base land speed is 30 feet.
\par \bullet  Low-Light Vision: A half-giant can see twice as far as a human in starlight, moonlight, torchlight, and similar conditions of poor illumination. He retains the ability to distinguish color and detail under these conditions.
\par \bullet  Fire Acclimated: Half-giants have a +2 racial bonus on saving throws against all fire spells and effects. Half-giants are accustomed to enduring high temperatures.
\par \bullet  Powerful Build: The physical stature of half-giants lets them function in many ways as if they were one size category larger.
\par Whenever a half-giant is subject to a size modifier or special size modifier for an opposed check (such as during grapple checks, bull rush attempts, and trip attempts), the half-giant is treated as one size larger if doing so is advantageous to him.

\par A half-giant is also considered to be one size larger when determining whether a creature\rquote 
s special attacks based on size (such as improved grab or swallow whole) can affect him. A half-giant can use weapons designed for a creature one size larger without penalty. How
ever, his space and reach remain those of a creature of his actual size. The benefits of this racial trait stack with the effects of powers, abilities, and spells that change the subject\rquote s size category.
\par \bullet  Naturally Psionic: Half-giants gain 2 bonus power points at 1st level. This benefit does not grant them the ability to manifest powers unless they gain that ability through another source, such as levels in a psionic class.
\par \bullet  Psi-Like Ability: 1/day\emdash }{\i stomp}{. Manifester level is equal to 1/2 Hit Dice (minimum 1st). The save DC is Charisma-based.
\par \bullet  Automatic Language: Common. Bonus Languages: Draconic, Giant, Gnoll, Ignan.
\par \bullet  Favored Class: Psychic warrior.
\par \bullet  Level Adjustment: +1.
\par }{\fs36 
\par MAENADS
\par }{\bullet  Medium: As Medium creatures, maenads have no special bonuses or penalties due to their size.
\par \bullet  Maenad base land speed is 30 feet.
\par \bullet  Naturally Psionic: Maenads gain 2 bonus power points at 1st level. This benefit does not grant them the ability to manifest powers unless they gain that ability through another source, such as levels in a psionic class.
\par \bullet  Psi-Like Ability: 1/day\emdash }{\i energy ray}{. A maenad can deal only sonic damage with this ability. It is accompanied by a tremendous scream of rage. Manifester level is equal to 1/2 Hit Dice (minimum 1st). The save DC is Charisma-based.

\par \bullet  Outburst (Ex): Once per day, for up to 4 rounds, a maenad can subjugate her mentality to gain a boost of raw physical power. When she does so, she takes a \endash 2 penalty to Intelligence and Wisdom but gains a +2 bonus to Strength.
\par \bullet  Automatic Languages: Common, Maenad. Bonus Languages: Aquan, Draconic, Dwarven, Elven
, Goblin. Maenads commonly know the languages of their enemies and of their friends, as well as Draconic, the language commonly found in ancient tomes of secret knowledge.
\par \bullet  Favored Class: Wilder.
\par \bullet  Level Adjustment: +0
\par }{\fs36 
\par XEPHS
\par }{\bullet  +2 Dexterity, \endash 2 Strength
\par \bullet  Medium: As Medium creatures, xephs have no special bonuses or penalties due to their size.
\par \bullet  Xeph base land speed is 30 feet.
\par \bullet  Darkvision out to 60 feet.
\par \bullet  +1 racial bonus on saving throws against powers, spells, and spell-like effects. Xephs have an innate resistance to psionics and magic.
\par \bullet  Naturally Psionic: Xephs gain 1 bonus power point at 1st level. This benefit does not grant them the ability to manifest powers unless they gain that ability through another source, such as levels in a psionic class.
\par \bullet 
 Burst (Su): Three times per day, a xeph can put on a burst of speed to increase her speed by 10 feet, plus 10 feet per four character levels beyond 1st, to a maximum increase of 30 feet at 9th character level and higher. These bursts of speed are consid
ered a competence bonus to the xeph\rquote s base speed. A burst of speed lasts 3 rounds.
\par \bullet  Automatic Languages: Common, Xeph. Bonus Languages: Draconic, Elven, Gnoll, Goblin, Halfling, Sylvan.
\par \bullet  Favored Class: Soulknife.
\par }{\fs36 
\par AGE, HEIGHT, AND WEIGHT
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth5568\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth5568 \cellx5460\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b 
\par Table: Random Starting Ages\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth5568\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth5568 \cellx5460\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth5568\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1200 \cellx1092\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1170 \cellx2262\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1170 \cellx3432
\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1014 \cellx4446\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1014 \cellx5460\pard\plain 
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Race\cell }\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Adulthood\cell Barbarian Rogue Sorcerer Soulknife Wilder\cell Bard Fighter Paladin Ranger Psychic Warrior\cell Cleric Druid Monk Psion Wizard\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth5568\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1200 \cellx1092\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1170 \cellx2262\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1170 \cellx3432
\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1014 \cellx4446\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1014 \cellx5460\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth5568\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1200 \cellx1092\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1170 \cellx2262\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1170 \cellx3432\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1014 \cellx4446
\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1014 \cellx5460\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Dromite\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {13 years\cell +1d4\cell +1d6\cell 
+2d6\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth5568\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1200 \cellx1092\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1170 \cellx2262\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1170 
\cellx3432\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1014 \cellx4446\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1014 \cellx5460\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Duergar\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {40 years\cell +3d6\cell +5d6\cell +7d6\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth5568\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1200 \cellx1092\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1170 \cellx2262\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1170 \cellx3432\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1014 
\cellx4446\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1014 \cellx5460\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Elan\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {20 years\cell +2d4
\cell +2d6\cell +3d6\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth5568\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1200 \cellx1092\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1170 \cellx2262\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1170 \cellx3432\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1014 \cellx4446\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1014 \cellx5460\row 
}\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Half-giant\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {30 years\cell +3d6\cell +2d6\cell +4d6\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth5568\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1200 \cellx1092\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1170 \cellx2262\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1170 \cellx3432\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1014 \cellx4446\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1014 \cellx5460\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Maenad\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {40 years\cell +1d6\cell +4d6\cell +6d6\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth5568\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1200 \cellx1092\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1170 \cellx2262\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1170 \cellx3432\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1014 \cellx4446
\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1014 \cellx5460\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth5568\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1200 \cellx1092\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1170 \cellx2262\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1170 \cellx3432\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1014 \cellx4446\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1014 \cellx5460\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Xeph\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {18 years\cell 
+1d4\cell +2d4\cell +2d6\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth5568\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1200 \cellx1092\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1170 \cellx2262\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1170 \cellx3432\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1014 \cellx4446\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1014 \cellx5460\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5841\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b 
Table: Aging Effects\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5841\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx930\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2206\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3194\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4353\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5841\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b Race\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b Middle Age}{
\b\super 1}{\super \cell }{\b Old}{\b\super 2}{\super \cell }{\b Venerable}{\b\super 3}{\super \cell }{\b Maximum Age\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx930\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx2206\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3194\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4353\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5841\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Dromite\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {30 years\cell 55 years\cell 75 years\cell +2d20 years\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx930\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2206\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3194\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4353\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5841\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Duergar\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {125 years\cell 188 years\cell 250 years\cell +2d% years\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx930\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2206\clvertalb
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3194\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4353\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5841
\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Elan\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {200 years\cell 400 years\cell 1,000 years\cell +10d% years\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx930\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2206\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3194\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4353\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5841\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Half-giant\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {60 years\cell 80 years\cell 120 years\cell +4d% years\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx930\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2206\clvertalb
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3194\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4353\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5841
\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Maenad\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {90 years\cell 150 years\cell 220 years\cell +2d% years\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx930\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2206\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3194\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4353\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5841\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Xeph\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {45 years\cell 85 years\cell 120 years\cell +2d20 years\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx930\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2206\clvertalb
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3194\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4353\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5841
\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5841\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1 \endash 1 to Str, Dex, and Con; +1 to Int, Wis, and Cha.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5841\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {2 \endash 2
 to Str, Dex, and Con; +1 to Int, Wis, and Cha.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5841\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5841\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {3 \endash 3 to Str, Dex, and Con; +1 to Int, Wis, and Cha.\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx5841\row }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth7860 \cellx7752\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Table: Random Height and Weight\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth7860 \cellx7752\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1574\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1345 \cellx2919\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1700 \cellx4619\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1389 
\cellx6008\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1744 \cellx7752\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\fs20 Race\cell }\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Base Height\cell Height Modifier\cell Base Weight\cell Weight Modifier\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1574\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1345 \cellx2919\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1700 
\cellx4619\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1389 \cellx6008\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1744 \cellx7752\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1574\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1345 \cellx2919\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1700 \cellx4619\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1389 \cellx6008
\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1744 \cellx7752\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Dromite\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {2\u8242\'278\u8243\'3f\cell 2d4
\cell 30 lb.\cell x1 lb.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1574\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1345 \cellx2919\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1700 \cellx4619\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1389 \cellx6008\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1744 \cellx7752\row 
}\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Duergar, male\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {3\u8242\'279\u8243\'3f\cell 2d4\cell 110 lb.\cell x(2d4) lb.\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1574\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1345 \cellx2919\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1700 
\cellx4619\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1389 \cellx6008\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1744 \cellx7752\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Duergar, female\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {3\u8242\'277\u8243\'3f\cell 2d4\cell 80 lb.\cell x(2d4) lb.\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1574\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1345 \cellx2919\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1700 
\cellx4619\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1389 \cellx6008\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1744 \cellx7752\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Elan, male\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {4\u8242\'2710\u8243\'3f\cell 2d10\cell 120 lb.\cell x(2d4) lb.\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1574\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1345 \cellx2919\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1700 
\cellx4619\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1389 \cellx6008\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1744 \cellx7752\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Elan, female\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {4\u8242\'275\u8243\'3f\cell 2d10\cell 85 lb.\cell x(2d4) lb.\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1574\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1345 \cellx2919\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1700 
\cellx4619\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1389 \cellx6008\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1744 \cellx7752\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Half-giant, male\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {6\u8242\'274\u8243\'3f\cell 2d12\cell 220 lb.\cell x(2d6) lb.\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1574\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1345 \cellx2919\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1700 
\cellx4619\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1389 \cellx6008\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1744 \cellx7752\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Half-giant, female\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {6\u8242\'271\u8243\'3f\cell 2d12\cell 180 lb.\cell x(2d6) lb.\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1574\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1345 \cellx2919\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1700 
\cellx4619\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1389 \cellx6008\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1744 \cellx7752\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Maenad, male\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {5\u8242\'274\u8243\'3f\cell 2d10\cell 150 lb.\cell x(2d4) lb.\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1574\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1345 \cellx2919\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1700 
\cellx4619\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1389 \cellx6008\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1744 \cellx7752\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Maenad, female\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {5\u8242\'273\u8243\'3f\cell 2d10\cell 120 lb.\cell x(2d4) lb.\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1574\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1345 \cellx2919\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1700 
\cellx4619\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1389 \cellx6008\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1744 \cellx7752\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Xeph, male\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {4\u8242\'278\u8243\'3f\cell 2d10\cell 100 lb.\cell x(2d4) lb.\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1574\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1345 \cellx2919\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1700 
\cellx4619\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1389 \cellx6008\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1744 \cellx7752\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1574\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1345 \cellx2919
\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1700 \cellx4619\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1389 \cellx6008\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1744 \cellx7752\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Xeph, female\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {4\u8242\'274\u8243\'3f\cell 2d10\cell 75 lb.\cell x(2d4) lb.\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1574\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1345 \cellx2919\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1700 \cellx4619\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1389 \cellx6008\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1744 \cellx7752\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par 
\par }}