{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f28\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f29\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f31\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f32\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f33\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f34\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f35\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f44\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f45\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f47\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f48\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f49\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}
{\f50\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f51\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{
\s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{\s4\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 4;}{\s5\qr \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 5;}{\*\cs10 \additive 
Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Preformatted;}
}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1171835036\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 
\fi-360\li1800\jclisttab\tx1800 }{\listname ;}\listid-132}{\list\listtemplateid-1259283726\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr
\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440 }{\listname ;}\listid-131}{\list\listtemplateid-205616708\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0
{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-360\li1080\jclisttab\tx1080 }{\listname ;}\listid-130}{\list\listtemplateid-2114025972\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0
\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid-129}{\list\listtemplateid316704552\listsimple{\listlevel
\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li1800\jclisttab\tx1800 }{\listname 
;}\listid-128}{\list\listtemplateid-615348062\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 
\chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440 }{\listname ;}\listid-127}{\list\listtemplateid-280570430\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li1080\jclisttab\tx1080 }{\listname ;}\listid-126}{\list\listtemplateid1394099946\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0
\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid-125}{\list\listtemplateid104632372\listsimple
{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid-120}
{\list\listtemplateid711635824\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 
\fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid-119}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid-119\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid-125\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid-126\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid-127
\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid-128\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid-120\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid-129\listoverridecount0\ls7}{\listoverride\listid-130\listoverridecount0\ls8}{\listoverride\listid-131
\listoverridecount0\ls9}{\listoverride\listid-132\listoverridecount0\ls10}}{\info{\title The powers herein are presented in alphabetical order (with the exception of those whose names begin with a qualifier of some }{\author asmith}{\operator asmith}
{\creatim\yr2004\mo4\dy7\hr11\min7}{\revtim\yr2004\mo4\dy7\hr11\min7}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages5}{\nofwords8582}{\nofchars48922}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws60079}{\vern8229}}\margl1080\margr1080\margt1080\margb1080 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace78\dgvspace180\dghorigin1080\dgvorigin1080\dghshow2\dgvshow2
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 
This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{\f0\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {PSIONIC POWERS (Q-W)
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par Quintessence
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Metacreativity (Creation)
\par }{\b Level:}{ Shaper 4
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material; see text
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 round
\par }{\b Range:}{ 0 ft.
\par }{\b Effect:}{ 1-inch-diameter dollop of quintessence; see text
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ No
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 7
\par You collapse a bit of time from the continuum, forming a 1-ounce dollop of thick, gooey material called quintessence
. This substance shimmers like a silver mirror when viewed from some angles but is transparent from other viewpoints. You can smooth a dollop of quintessence around any extremely small object.
\par Objects sealed within quintessence are protected from the effec
ts of time; in practical terms, they enter a state of stasis. Living flesh with only partial contact with quintessence is also partially pulled out of the time stream (the manifester is immune to this effect). This disruption deals 1 point of damage per r
ound beginning 10 rounds after partial contact occurs.
\par Quintessence can be manually scraped away from a protected object, freeing it to rejoin the time stream. When you do this, there is a 75% chance that the quintessence evaporates back into the continuum.
 Otherwise, it coalesces again into a 1-inch-diameter bead, available for later use.
\par Large quantities of quintessence could theoretically be gathered to preserve large items or structures (or even a complete living creature; if completely immersed, a livin
g creature would not take the damage associated with partial contact). However, psionic characters and creatures are generally loath to do so because accumulations of quintessence weighing 1 pound or more hinder psionic activity within a 5-foot radius of 
t
he accumulation: Powers require twice as many power points to manifest, unless the manifester makes a successful Will save each time he or she attempts to manifest a power. Also in these circumstances, manifesting a psi-like ability that is usable at will
 is a full-round action rather than a standard action.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Read Thoughts
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Telepath 2
\par }{\b Display:}{ Mental
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ 60 ft.
\par }{\b Area:}{ Cone-shaped emanation centered on you
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Concentration, up to 1 min./level (D)
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will negates; see text
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ No
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 3
\par You know the surface thoughts of the mind of any creature in the area that fails a Will save. A target that succeeds on its save is not affected by this manifestation
 of the power, even if it leaves the area and then reenters the area before the duration expires.
\par Creatures of animal intelligence have simple, instinctual thoughts that you can pick up. If you read the thoughts of a creature with an Intelligence of 26 or 
higher (and at least 10 points higher than your own Intelligence score), you are stunned for 1 round and the power ends. This power does not let you pinpoint the location of an affected mind if you don\rquote t have line of sight to the subject.
\par Each round, you can turn to use this power in a new area. The power can penetrate barriers, but 1 foot of stone, 1 inch of common metal, a thin sheet of lead, or 3 feet of wood or dirt blocks it.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Reality Revision
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 9
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ See text
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ See text
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 17, XP
\par As }{\i bend reality}{, but with more farreaching effects. A }{\i reality revision }{can produce any one of the following effects.
\par \bullet  Duplicate any psion power of 8th level or lower, provided the power is not prohibited to you.
\par \bullet  Duplicate any other power (but not a spell) of 6th level or lower, such as a psychic warrior power.
\par \bullet  Duplicate any psion power of 7th level or lower even if it\rquote s a power prohibited to you.
\par \bullet  Undo the harmful effects of many other powers, such as }{\i microcosm, geas/quest, }{or }{\i insanity}{.
\par \bullet  Create a nonpsionic item of up to 25,000 gp in value.
\par \bullet  Create a psionic item, or add to the powers of an existing psionic item (see XP cost below).
\par \bullet  Grant a creature a +1 inherent bonus to an ability score. Two to five }{\i reality revisions }{
manifested in immediate succession can grant a creature a +2 to +5 inherent bonus to an ability score. Inherent bonuses are instantaneous, so they cannot be negated or dispelled. An inherent bonus cannot exceed +5 for a single ability s
core. Inherent bonuses to a particular ability score do not stack; only the best one applies.
\par \bullet  Remove injuries and afflictions. A single }{\i reality revision }{can aid one creature per manifester level, and all subjects are cured of the same kind of affliction. 
\par }{\i Reality revision }{can not restore the experience point loss from manifesting a power or casting a spell, or the level or  Constitution loss from being returned to life by those effects that reduce level or Constitution.
\par \bullet  Revive the dead. }{\i Reality revision }{can bring a dead creature back to life by duplicating a }{\i resurrection }{spell. This power can revive a dead creature whose body has been destroyed, but the task takes two manifestations of }{\i 
reality revision}{, one to recreate the body and another to infuse the body with life again. }{\i Reality revision }{cannot prevent a character who is brought back to life from losing a level.
\par \bullet  Transport travelers. This power can lift one creature per manifester level from anywhere on any plane and place those creatures anywhere el
se on any plane regardless of local conditions. An unwilling target gets a Will save to negate the effect, and power resistance (if any) applies.
\par \bullet  Undo misfortune. }{\i Reality revision }{can undo a single recent event. Manifesting the power forces a reroll of a
ny roll made within the last round (including your last turn). Reality reshapes itself to accommodate the new result. The reroll, however, may be as bad as or worse than the original roll. An unwilling target gets a Will save to negate the effect, and pow
er resistance (if any) applies.
\par You can try to use }{\i reality revision }{to produce more powerful effects than these, but doing so is dangerous. The manifestation may pervert your intent into a literal but undesirable fulfillment or only a partial fulfillment.
\par Duplicated powers allow saves and power resistance as normal (but save DCs are calculated as though the power is 9th level).
\par }{\i XP Cost: }{The minimum XP cost for manifesting }{\i reality revision }{is 5,000
\par XP. When a manifestation duplicates a power that has an XP co
st, you must pay 5,000 XP or that cost, whichever is more. When a manifestation creates or improves a psionic item, you must pay twice the normal XP cost for crafting or improving the item, plus an additional 5,000 XP.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Recall Agony
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 2
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./ level)
\par }{\b Target:}{ One creature
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will half
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 3
\par The fabric of time parts to your will, revealing wounds your foe has received in the past (or has yet to receive). That foe takes 2d6 points of damage as the past (or future) impinges briefly on the present.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every additional power point you spend, this power\rquote s damage increases by 1d6 points. For each extra 2d6 points of damage, this power\rquote s save DC increases by 1.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Recall Death
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience [Death, Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 8
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will partial; see text
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 15
\par As }{\i recall agony}{, except the wounds revealed by folding the fourth dimension are potentially fatal. If the target fails its Will save. it dies. If the save succeeds, the target instead takes 5d6 points of damage.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Reddopsi
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychokinesis
\par }{\b Level:}{ Kineticist 7
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory, mental, and olfactory
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Until discharged or 10 min./level
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 13
\par When you manifest }{\i reddopsi, }{powers targeted against you rebound to affect the original manifester. This effect reverses powers that have only you as a target (except }{\i dispel psionics }{
and similar powers or effects). Powers that affect an area and those that produce effects can\rquote t be reversed. }{\i Reddopsi }{also can\rquote t reverse any power with a range of touch.
\par Should you rebound a power back against a manifester who also is protected by }{\i reddopsi}{, the power rebounds once more upon you.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Remote View Trap
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience [Electricity]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 6
\par }{\b Display:}{ Mental and visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 24 hours + 1 hour/level
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will half; see text
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ No
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 11
\par When others use }{\i clairvoyant sense}{, }{\i remote viewing}{, or other means of scrying you from afar, your prepared trap gives them a nasty surprise. 
If the scryer fails its saving throw, you are undetected. Moreover, the would-be observer takes 8d6 points of electricity damage. If the scryer makes its saving throw, it takes only 4d6 points of electricity damage and is able to observe you normally. Eit
her way, you are aware of the attempt to view you, but not of the viewer or the viewer\rquote s location. It is possible that you might recognize the quasireal viewpoint of someone using the }{\i remote viewing }{power if you could pierce its }{\i 
invisibility }{(which is true for }{\i remote viewing }{whether or not you use this power).
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Remote Viewing
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience (Scrying; see text)
\par }{\b Level:}{ Seer 4
\par }{\b Display:}{ Mental
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 hour
\par }{\b Range:}{ See text
\par }{\b Effect:}{ Quasi-real viewpoint
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 min./level (D)
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will negates
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 7, XP
\par You send your mind across space and dimensions, forming it into a quasireal viewpoint from which you can see and hear some creature located at any distance from you, even if planar boundaries separate you. If the subject succeeds on a Will save, the }{\i 
remote viewing }{attempt fails, and you can\rquote t attempt to view that creature again for at least 24 hours. The difficulty of the save depends on how well you know the subject and what sort of physical connection (if any)
 you have to that creature. Furthermore, if the subject is on another plane, it gets a +5 bonus on its Will save.
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3826 \cellx3718\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1274 \cellx4992\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b Knowledge\cell }\pard\plain \s4\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0 
\b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Will Save Modifier\cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3826 \cellx3718\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1274 \cellx4992\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3826 \cellx3718\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1274 \cellx4992\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {None*\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+10\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3826 \cellx3718\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1274 \cellx4992\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Secondhand (you have heard of the subject)\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+5\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3826 \cellx3718\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1274 \cellx4992\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Firsthand (you have met the subject)\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+0\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3826 \cellx3718\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1274 \cellx4992\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Familiar (you know the subject well)\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\endash 5\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3826 \cellx3718\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1274 \cellx4992\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth5100 \cellx4992
\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {*You must have some sort of connection to a creature you have no knowledge of.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth5100 \cellx4992\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3185\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1183 
\cellx4368\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Connection\cell }\pard \s3\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0 {
Will Save Modifier\cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3185\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1183 \cellx4368\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3185\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1183 \cellx4368\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Likeness or picture\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\endash 2\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3185\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1183 \cellx4368\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Possession or garment\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\endash 4\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3185\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1183 \cellx4368
\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Body part, lock of hair, bit of nail, etc.\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\endash 10\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3185\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1183 \cellx4368\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3185\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1183 \cellx4368\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Subject on another plane\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+5\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3185\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1183 \cellx4368\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
If the subject fails its Will save, your mind coalesces a quasi-real viewpoint near enough to the subject to see and hear the subject and its immediate surroundings (up 30 feet in all directions away from the subject).
\par While the }{\i remote viewing }{lasts, your real body remains unmoving and unaware of your actual surroundings. On the other hand, your quasi-real viewpoint is treated in some ways as if it were an invisible }{\i ectoplasmic form }{
of yourself, except as follows. This power is of the Scrying subdiscipline, but use the following information in place of the standard scrying sensor. As a quasi-real viewpoint, you can speak (though your voice is whispery).
\par You may potentially be sensed by the subject of your viewing (subjects who can see or sense inv
isible or hidden creatures automatically sense you; otherwise you make a Hide check with a +40 bonus to escape detection if immobile, or a +20 bonus if moving). You could be attacked (although if you become subject to }{\i dispel psionics}{, the }{\i 
remote viewing }{simply ends). If the subject moves, you can attempt to follow it at a speed of 20 feet, though if it gets farther than 30 feet from you (or you move farther than 30 feet from it), the power ends.
\par You can attempt to manifest one power through your quasi-real 
viewpoint, but you must make a Concentration check (DC 20 + level of the power you wish to manifest) to succeed. Manifesting (or attempting and failing to manifest) a power immediately ends the }{\i remote viewing.
\par }{Furthermore, all powers from your quasi-real viewpoint cost twice the usual number of power points (you can\rquote 
t exceed the power point limit set by your manifester level, so you are restricted to manifesting lower-level powers than you otherwise could). Power points you spend as a quasireal viewpoint are drained from your real body.
\par }{\i XP Cost: }{20 XP.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Restoration, Psionic
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism (Healing)
\par }{\b Level:}{ Egoist 6
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 3 rounds
\par }{\b Range:}{ Touch
\par }{\b Target:}{ Creature touched
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will negates (harmless)
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes (harmless)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 11
\par This power cures all ability damage, and it restores all points drained from a single ability score (your choice if more than one score is drained). It also eliminates any fatigue or exhaustion suffered by the target. }{\i Restoration }{
does not restore levels or Constitution points lost due to death.
\par }{\i Restoration }{can remove negative levels. It can also restore one level to a creature who has had a level drained, if the number of days since the creature lost the level is equal to or less than your manifester level. In such a case, }{\i 
restoration }{brings the creature up to the minimum number of experience points necessary to advance it to the next higher level, gaining it an additional Hit Die and level benefits accordingly.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Restore Extremity
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism (Healing)
\par }{\b Level:}{ Egoist 5
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Touch
\par }{\b Target:}{ Creature touched
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will half (harmless)
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes (harmless)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 9
\par You restore a severed extremity to a creature that has lost a digit, hand, arm, leg, or even its head. This power does not restore life, but it returns a lost extremity to a living or dead creature if the creature is otherwise mostly intact. The
 original extremity need not be present when this power is manifested; a new extremity is created by the power. If a head is restored to a body, the original head (if not already destroyed) loses all spark of identity, and can be considered so much dead t
issue.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Retrieve
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychoportation (Teleportation)
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 6
\par }{\b Display:}{ Visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./ level)
\par }{\b Target:}{ One object you can hold or carry in one hand, weighing up to 10 lb./level
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will negates; see text
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ No
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 11
\par You automatically teleport an item you can see within range directly to your hand. If the object is in the possession of an opponent, it comes to your hand if your opponent fails a Will save.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every additional power point you spend, the weight limit of the target increases by 10 pounds.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Schism
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Telepath 4
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory and visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 round/level (D)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 7
\par Your mind splits into two independent parts. Each part functions in complete autonomy, like two characters in one body. Your new \'93second mind\'94 does not control your body physically but is fre
e to take one standard action in each round if the action is purely mental (such as manifesting a power) in the same round you take your normal actions.
\par Your second mind can manifest powers using your power point reserve, but only as if your manifester level were six lower than it is. Your second mind doesn\rquote t provoke attacks of opportunity when manifesting a power, because doing so doesn\rquote 
t distract your primary mind.
\par Your second mind takes its first action on your turn in the round after }{\i schism }{is manifested.
\par Both your minds communicate with each other telepathically. If you are subject to a compulsion or charm effect while you are of two minds, make a second saving throw if you fail the first. If you fail both, then the }{\i schism }{
ends and you are affected normally by the power. If you fail just one, the }{\i schism }{ends immediately, but you are not subject to the compulsion or charm.
\par Your second mind does not gain any advantages if you are subject to a }{\i haste }{effect, although you gain the overall standard benefits.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Second Chance
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience
\par }{\b Level:}{ Seer 5
\par }{\b Display:}{ Mental
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 round/level or until discharged
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 9
\par You take a hand in influencing the probable outcomes of your immediate en
vironment. You see the many alternative branches that reality could take in the next few seconds, and with this foreknowledge you gain the ability to reroll one attack roll, one saving throw, one ability check, or one skill check each round. You must take
 the result of the reroll, even if it\rquote s worse than the original roll. You do not have to make another roll if satisfied with your original roll.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Sense Link
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b Target:}{ One willing creature
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Concentration, up to 1min./level
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par You perceive what the subject creature perceives using its sight, hearing, taste, or smell. Only one sense is linked, and you cannot switch between senses with the same manifestation.
\par You make any skill checks involving senses, such as Spot or Listen, as the subject, and only within the subject\rquote s field of view. You lose your Dexterity bonus to AC while directly sensing what the subject senses.
\par Once }{\i sense link }{is manifested, the link persists even if the subject moves out of the range of the original manifestation (but the link does not work across planes). You do not control the subject, nor can you communicate with it by means of t
his power.
\par The strength of the subject\rquote s linked sense could be enhanced by other powers or items, allowing you the same enhanced sense. You are subject to any gaze attack affecting the subject creature (if you linked vision). If you are blinded or deafened
, or suffer some other sensory deprivation, the linked creature functions as an independent sensory organ, and provides you the benefit of the linked sense from its perspective while this power\rquote s duration lasts.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ You can augment this power in one or both of the following ways.
\par 1. If you spend 2 additional power points, you can have the subject perceive one of your senses instead of the other way around.
\par 2. If you spend 4 additional power points, you can link to a second sense of the same subject.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Sense Link, Forced
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 2
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will negates
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 3
\par As }{\i sense link, }{except you can use this power on any creature (willing or unwilling), and this power can\rquote t be augmented.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Sensitivity to Psychic Impressions
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience
\par }{\b Level:}{ Seer 2
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory and material
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 hour
\par }{\b Range:}{ Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b Area:}{ Spread with a radius of 25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels, centered on you
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Concentration, up to 10 min./level
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ No
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 3
\par You gain historical vision in a given location. Rooms, streets, tunnels, and other discrete locations accumulate psychic impressions left by powerful emotions experienced in a given area. These impressions offer you a picture of the location\rquote 
s past.
\par The types of events most likely to leave psychic impressions are those that elicited strong emotions: battles and betrayals, marriages and murders, births and great pain, or any other event 
where one emotion dominates. Everyday occurrences leave no residue for a manifester to detect.
\par The vision of the event is dreamlike and shadowy. You do not gain special knowledge of those involved in the vision, though you might be able to read large banners or other writing if they are in your language.
\par Beginning with the most recent significant event at a location and working backward in time, you can sense one distinct event for every 10 minutes you maintain concentration, if any such events exist to be 
sensed. Your sensitivity extends into the past a maximum number of years equal to 100 x your manifester level.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Sequester, Psionic
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 7
\par }{\b Display:}{ None
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Touch
\par }{\b Target:}{ One willing creature or one object (up to a 2-ft. cube/level) touched
\par }{\b Duration:}{ One day/level (D)
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None or Will negates (object)
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ No or Yes (object)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 13, XP
\par As the }{\i sequester }{spell, except as noted here. 
\par }{\i XP Cost: }{75 XP.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Shadow Body
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 8
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 min./level (D)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 15
\par Your body and all your equipment are subsumed by your shadow. As a living shadow, you blend perfectly into any other shadow and vanish in darkness. You appear as an unattached shadow in areas of full light.
\par You can move at your normal speed, on any surface, including walls and ceilings, as well as across the surfaces of liquids\emdash even up the face of a waterfall.
\par Your space does not change, so you cannot move into locations you would not normally be able to move into.
\par While in your }{\i shadow body, }{you gain damage reduction 10/magic and darkvision out to 60 feet. You are immune to extra damage from c
ritical hits, ability damage, disease, drowning, and poison. You take only half damage from acid, electricity, and fire of all kinds.
\par While affected by this power, you can be detected by powers that read thoughts, life, or presences (including }{\i true seeing}{), or if you make suspicious movements in lighted areas.
\par You cannot harm anyone physically or manipulate any objects, but you can use your powers normally. Doing so may attract notice, but if you remain in a shadowed area, you get a +15 bonus on your Hide check to remain unnoticed.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Share Pain
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 2
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material and mental
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Touch
\par }{\b Targets:}{ You and one willing creature, or two willing creatures; see text
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 hour/level (D)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 3
\par This power creates a psychometabolic connection between you and a willing subject so that some of your wounds are transferred to the subject. You take half damage from all attacks that deal hit point damage to you, and the subject takes the
 remainder. The amount of damage not taken by you is taken by the subject. If your hit points are reduced by a lowered Constitution score, that reduction is not shared with the subject because it is not a form of hit point damage. When this power ends, su
bsequent damage is no longer divided between the subject and you, but damage already shared is not reassigned.
\par If you and the subject move farther away from each other than close range, the power ends.
\par You can manifest this power on two willing subjects, one of which you designate to share its damage with the other.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Share Pain, Forced
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 3
\par }{\b Range:}{ Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b Target:}{ One creature
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 round/level (D)
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Fortitude negates
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 5
\par As }{\i share pain}{, except as noted here.
\par You attempt to force the sharing of your wounds with an unwilling creature, and for less time. If you are immune to the type of damage dealt, or if you convert lethal damage into nonlethal damage, the target takes no damage.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every 2 additional power points you spend, this power\rquote s save DC increases by 1.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Shatter Mind Blank
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 5
\par }{\b Display:}{ Olfactory
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ 30 ft.
\par }{\b Area:}{ 30-ft.-radius burst centered on you
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will negates
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 9
\par This power can negate a }{\i psionic mind blank }{or a }{\i personal mind blank }{affecting the target. If the target fails its save and does not overcom
e your attempt with its power resistance, you can shatter the mind blank by making a successful check (1d20 + your manifester level, maximum +20) against a DC equal to 11 + the manifester level of the creator of the }{\i mind blank }{
effect. If you succeed, the }{\i psionic mind blank }{or }{\i personal mind blank }{ends, allowing you to affect the target thereafter with mind-affecting powers.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Skate
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychoportation
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 1, psychic warrior 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material and visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal or touch; see text
\par }{\b Target:}{ You or one willing creature or one unattended object (total weight up to 100 lb./level); see text
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 min./level (D)
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes (harmless, object)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par You, another willing creature, or an unattended object can slide along solid ground as if on smooth ice. If you manifest }{\i skate }{
on yourself or another creature, the subject of the power retains equilibrium by mental desire alone, allowing her to gracefully skate along the ground, turn, or stop suddenly as desired. The skater\rquote 
s land speed increases by 15 feet. (This adjustment is treated as an enhancement bonus.) As with any effect that increases speed, this power affects the subject\rquote s maximum jumping distance.
\par The subject can skate up or down any incline or decline she could normally walk upon without mishap, though skating up an incline reduces the subject\rquote 
s speed to normal, while skating down a decline increases her speed by an additional 15 feet. (This adjustment is treated as a circumstance bonus.)
\par If you manifest }{\i skate }{on an object, treat the object as having only one-tenth of its normal weight for the purpose of dragging it along the ground.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Solicit Psicrystal
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 3
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 swift action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b Target:}{ Your psicrystal
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 round/level (D)
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ No
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ No
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 5
\par Your psicrystal takes over the responsibility of maintaining concentration on any single power you
\par have manifested and are concentrating on. While maintaining this concentration, the psicrystal is limited to move actions in each round, as normal. When the duration of }{\i solicit psicrystal }{expires, the power you transferred to the psicrystal ends (
even if this would mean that the power ends earlier than normal). If necessary, the psicrystal makes Concentration checks using your Concentration modifier.
\par You can manifest this power (and transfer the responsibility) with an instant thought, quickly enou
gh to gain the benefit of the power before you take any other actions in a round. Manifesting the power is a swift action, like manifesting a quickened power, and it counts toward the normal limit of one quickened power per round. You cannot manifest this
 power when it isn\rquote t your turn.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every additional power point you spend, this power\rquote s maximum duration increases by 1 round.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Steadfast Perception
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psychic warrior 4
\par }{\b Display:}{ Visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 10 min./level (D)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 7
\par Your vision cannot be distracted or misled, granting you immunity to all figments and glamers (such as }{\i invisibility}{). Moreover, your Spot and Search checks receive a +6 enhancement bonus for
 the duration of this power. This power also grants you another saving throw against someone using }{\i false sensory input }{on you, but you must realize that that power has been used in order to know enough to manifest }{\i steadfast perception}{.

\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Stomp
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychokinesis
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psychic warrior 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory and visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ 20 ft.
\par }{\b Area:}{ Cone-shaped spread
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Reflex negates
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ No
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par Your foot stomp precipitates a psychokinetic shock wave that travels along the ground, toppling creatures and loose objects. The shock wave affects only creatures standing on the ground within the power\rquote 
s area. Creatures that fail their saves are thrown to the ground, become prone, and take 1d4 points of nonlethal damage.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every additional power point you spend, this power\rquote s nonlethal damage increases by 1d4 points.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Strength of My Enemy
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psychic warrior 2
\par }{\b Display:}{ Visual; see text
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 round/level (D)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 3
\par You gain the ability to siphon away your enemy\rquote s strength for your own use. One of your natural or manufactured weapons becomes the instrument of your desire, and deals 1 poi
nt of Strength damage on each successful hit. You gain that point of Strength as an enhancement bonus to your Strength score. Strength you siphon from different foes is tracked separately\emdash 
the total siphoned from each individual foe is considered a separate enhancement bonus to your Strength (maximum +8), and you gain only the highest total.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ You can augment this power in one or both of the following ways.
\par 1. For every 3 additional power points you spend, the maximum enhancement bonus you can add to your Strength increases by 2.
\par 2. If you spend 6 additional power points, you can manifest this power as a swift action.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Suggestion, Psionic
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting, Language-Dependent]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Telepath 2
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b Target:}{ One creature
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 hour/level or until completed
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will negates
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 3
\par As the }{\i suggestion }{spell, except as noted here.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every 2 additional power points you spend, this power can affect an additional target. Any additional target cannot be more than 15 feet from another target of the power.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Suspend Life
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 6, psychic warrior 6
\par }{\b Display:}{ Olfactory
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Permanent unless ended or dismissed; see text
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 11
\par You can place yourself into a trance so deep that you are almost in suspended animation. Even powers that detect life or thought are incapable of determining that you are alive.
\par While you are suspended, you are aware of your surroundings. You feel the passage of one day for every year that actually passes. Though on a slower schedule, you grow hungry after a \'93day\'94 without food (
though a year passes in actuality) and begin to suffer the effects of thirst and starvation as appropriate.
\par If you take any damage, you come out of your trance 4 rounds later. The trance can also be ended by a successful use of }{\i dispel psionics. }{If you choose to dismiss the power, your trance ends 10 rounds later.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Sustenance
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 2, psychic warrior 2
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 3
\par You can go without food and water for one day. Each time you manifest this power, your body manufactures suffi- cient solid and liquid nourishment to satisfy your needs for that time.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Swarm of Crystals
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Metacreativity (Creation)
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 2
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ 15 ft.
\par }{\b Area:}{ Cone-shaped spread
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ No
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 3
\par Thousands of tiny crystal shards spray forth in an arc from your hand. These razorlike crystals slice everything in their path. Anyone caught in the cone takes 3d4 points of slashing damage.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every additional power point you spend, this power\rquote s damage increases by 1d4 points.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Synesthete
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 1, psychic warrior 1
\par }{\b Display: }{Material
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 10 min./level (D)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par You receive one kind of sensory input when a different sense is stimulated. In particular, you can either feel light or 
feel sound. You can shift your stimulated sense between these two options once per round as a swift action. Your senses continue to work normally as well, unless they are impaired for some reason.
\par Your face must be uncovered to use this power, because it is the skin of your face that acts as the sensory receiver.
\par If you are feeling light by absorbing ambient light onto your skin, you have your normal visual abilities (except for darkvision), even if your eyes are closed or you are blinded. If your eyes are 
working normally, you gain a +4 circumstance bonus on all Spot and Search checks. While feeling light, you are immune to gaze attacks.
\par If you are feeling sound by absorbing sound onto your skin and your ears are working normally, the expanded audio input provides you with a +4 circumstance bonus on Listen checks.
\par Psionic or magical displacement effects, invisibility effects, illusions, and other similar effects confuse your }{\i synesthete }{senses just as they would your normal senses.
\par You can also use this power to see sound if you are deafened, or hear light if you are blinded, thus removing all penalties associated with either condition (though you gain no bonuses for using the power in this way if you are not deafened or blinded).

\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telekinetic Force
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychokinesis [Force]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 3
\par }{\b Display:}{ Visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./ level)
\par }{\b Target:}{ One object at a time
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Concentration, up to 1 round/level
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will negates (object); see text
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes (object)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 5
\par You move an object by concentrating your mind upon its current location and then the location you desire, creating a sustained force. You can move an object weighing no more than 250 pounds up to 20 feet per round. A cr
eature can negate the effect on an object it possesses with a successful Will save or with power resistance. The weight can be moved across the ground or through the air. This power ends if the object is forced out of range. If you cease concentration, th
e object falls or stops.
\par You can drop a weight and pick up another during the power\rquote s duration, as long as you don\rquote t stop concentrating on maintaining the power. An object can be telekinetically manipulated as if you were moving it with one hand.
\par If you spend at least 5 rounds concentrating on an unattended object, you can attempt to break or burst it as if making a Strength check, except that you apply your key ability modifier to the check instead of your Strength modifier.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every additional power point you spend, the weight limit of the target increases by 25 pounds.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telekinetic Maneuver
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychokinesis [Force]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 4
\par }{\b Display:}{ Visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./ level)
\par }{\b Target:}{ One creature
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Concentration, up to 1 round/level
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 7
\par You can affect a foe by concentrating your mind upon its current status and the status you desire, once per round. You can perform a bull rush, a disarm, a grapple (including a pin), or a trip. Resolve these attempts as normal, except that they don
\rquote t provoke attacks of opportunity, you use your manifester level in place of your base attack bonus (for disarm and grapple attempts), you use your Intelligence mo
difier in place of your Strength modifier or Dexterity modifier, and a failed attempt doesn\rquote 
t allow a reactive attempt by the target (such as normally allowed on disarm or trip attempts). No save is allowed against these attempts, but power resistance applies normally.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every 2 additional power points you spend, this power grants a +1 bonus on your checks involving bull rush, disarm, grapple, or trip attempts.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telekinetic Sphere, Psionic
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychokinesis [Force]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Kineticist 8
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b Effect:}{ 1-ft.-diameter/level sphere, centered around creatures or objects
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 min./level (D)
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Reflex negates (object)
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes (object)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 15
\par As the }{\i telekinetic sphere }{spell, except as noted here.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telekinetic Thrust
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychokinesis
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 3
\par }{\b Display:}{ Visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./ level)
\par }{\b Target or Targets:}{ One or more objects or creatures with a total weight of 250 lb. or less
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will negates or Will negates (object); see text
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes or Yes (object); see text
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 5
\par You can affect one or more objects or creatures by concentrating your mind upon, sending them in a deadly hail at your foes\emdash 
or simply by hurling your foe! You can hurl one object or creature per manifester level (maximum fifteen separate targets), as long as all are within the power\rquote s range and each is no more tha
n 10 feet away from another one. Each object or creature can be hurled a maximum distance of 10 feet per level.
\par You must succeed on ranged attack rolls (one per creature or object thrown) to hit the target of the hurled items with the items, applying your 
Intelligence modifier to the attack roll instead of your Dexterity modifier. Hurled weapons deal their standard damage (your Strength bonus does not apply; arrows or bolts deal damage as daggers of their size when used in this manner). Other objects deal 
damage ranging from 1 point per 25 pounds of weight (for less dangerous objects such as an empty barrel) to 1d6 points per 25 pounds of weight (for hard, dense objects such as a boulder).
\par Creatures are allowed Will saves (and power resistance) to negate the effect, as are those whose held possessions are targeted by this power.
\par If you use this power to hurl a creature against a solid surface, it takes damage as if it had fallen 10 feet (1d6 points).
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every additional power point you spend, the weight limit of the target or targets increases by 25 pounds.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telempathic Projection
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy (Charm) [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./ level)
\par }{\b Target:}{ One creature
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 min./level
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will negates
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par You alter the subject\rquote s mood, adjusting its attitude toward you by one step in a positive direction. For instance, an unfriendly creature can be made indifferent, or a hostile creature unfriendly. You can grant a +4 bonus on your own (or others
\rquote ) Bluff, Diplomacy, Intimidate, Perform, or Sense Motive checks involving the affected creature.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Teleport, Psionic
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychoportation (Teleportation)
\par }{\b Level:}{ Nomad 5
\par }{\b Display:}{ Visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal and touch
\par }{\b Target or Targets:}{ You and touched objects or other touched willing creatures
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None or Will negates (object)
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ No or Yes (object)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 9
\par As the }{\i teleport }{spell, except as noted here.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Teleport, Psionic Greater
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychoportation (Teleportation)
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 8
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 15
\par As the }{\i greater teleport }{spell, except as noted here.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Teleportation Circle, Psionic
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychoportation (Teleportation)
\par }{\b Level:}{ Nomad 9
\par }{\b Display:}{ Mental
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 10 minutes
\par }{\b Range:}{ 0 ft.
\par }{\b Effect:}{ 5-ft.-radius circle that teleports those who activate it
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 10 min./level (D)
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 17
\par As the }{\i teleportation circle }{spell, except as noted here.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Teleport Trigger
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychoportation (Teleportation)
\par }{\b Level:}{ Nomad 5
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 hour/level (D)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 9
\par You specify a situation that triggers your automatic manifestation of a }{\i psionic teleport, }{taking you to a predetermined location. You must know the }{\i psionic teleport }{
power and have sufficient power points to manifest it when the specified situation occurs.
\par The }{\i teleport trigger }{goes off on th
e initiative count immediately after the specified situation occurs, even if you are flat-footed or you have already taken your turn in the current round. The specified situation can be described in general terms or specific terms.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Temporal Acceleration
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychoportation
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 6
\par }{\b Display:}{ None
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 swift action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 round (in apparent time); see text
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 11
\par You enter another time frame, speeding up so greatly that all other creatures se
em frozen, though they are actually still moving at normal speed. You are free to act for 1 round of apparent time. You can manifest powers, cast spells, move, or perform other types of actions, subject to the restrictions outlined below.
\par While your }{\i temporal acceleration }{
is in effect, other creatures are invulnerable to your attacks and powers. This means you cannot target a creature with any attack or power. However, a power you manifest that affects an area and has a duration longer than the remaining duration of your }
{\i temporal acceleration }{has its normal effect on creatures in the area once this power ends.
\par You can affect an unattended object but not an object held, carried, or worn by another creature. You are undetectable by any means while your }{\i temporal acceleration }{lasts.
\par While under the effect of this power, you cannot enter an area protected by a }{\i null psionics field }{or by a power or spell that neutralizes high-level powers or spells. Normal and magical fire, cold, acid, and the like can still harm you.
\par When your }{\i temporal acceleration }{expires, you resume acting during your current turn in the standard time frame. You are shaken for 1 round upon your return to the standard time frame.
\par Splintered or partitioned minds within your own mind, such as might be in effect through the use of powers such as }{\i schism}{
, are not temporally speeded up, even if your second mind manifested this power (your primary mind gains the benefit, while your second mind remains stuck in the standard time frame).
\par Manifesting this power is a swift action, like manifesting a quickened power, and it counts toward the normal limit of one quickened power per round. You cannot manifest this power when it isn\rquote t your turn.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every 4 additional power points you spend, this power\rquote s duration (in apparent time) increases by 1 round.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Thicken Skin
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism
\par }{\b Level:}{ Egoist 1, psychic warrior 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material and olfactory
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 10 min./level
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par Your skin or natural armor thickens and spreads across your body, providing a +1 enhancement bonus to your Armor Class.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ You can augment this power in one or both of the following ways.
\par 1. For every 3 additional power points you spend, the enhancement bonus increases by 1.
\par 2. If you spend 6 additional power points, you can manifest this power as a swift action.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Thought Shield
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 2, psychic warrior 2
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 immediate action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 round
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 3
\par You fortify your mind against intrusions, gaining power resistance 13 against all mind-affecting powers.
\par You can manifest this power instantly, quickly enough to gain its benefits in an emergency. Mani
festing the power is an immediate action, like manifesting a quickened power, and it counts toward the normal limit of one quickened power per round. You can use this power even when it\rquote s not your turn.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every additional power point you spend, this power\rquote s duration increases by 1 round, and the power resistance it provides increases by 1 point.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Time Hop
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychoportation
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 3
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory and visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b Targets:}{ One Medium or smaller creature, or one object weighing 300 lb. or less
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 round/level; see text
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will negates
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 5
\par The subject of the power hops forward in time 1 round for every manifester lev
el you have. In effect, the subject seems to disappear in a shimmer of silver energy, then reappear after the duration of this power expires. The subject reappears in exactly the same orientation and condition as before. From the subject\rquote 
s point of view, no time has passed at all.
\par In each round of the power\rquote s duration, on what would have been the subject\rquote s turn, it can attempt a DC 15 Wisdom check. Success allows the subject to return. The subject can act normally on its next turn after this power ends.
\par If the space from which the subject departed is occupied upon his return to the time stream, he appears in the closest unoccupied space, still in his original orientation. Determine the closest space randomly if necessary.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ You can augment this power in one or both of the following ways.
\par 1. For every 2 additional power points you spend, you can affect a creature of one size category larger, or double the weight of an object to be affected.
\par 2. For every 2 additional power points you spend, this power can affect an additional target. Any additional target cannot be more than 15 feet from another target of the power.
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Time Hop, Mass
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychoportation
\par }{\b Level:}{ Nomad 8
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory and visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b Targets:}{ All willing creatures in range
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Up to 1 hour/level; see text
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 15
\par As }{\i time hop}{, except you can affect any number of willing subjects in range, including yourself. You can choose which creatures are affected by the pow
er. The subjects hop forward in time a number of hours equal to your manifester level, or some shorter number of hours; you decide how many hours the }{\i mass time hop }{lasts when you manifest the power.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ If you spend 6 additional power points, you can manifest this power as an immediate action.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Time Regression
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychoportation
\par }{\b Level:}{ Nomad 9
\par }{\b Display:}{ None
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 17, XP
\par You can regress apparent time 1 round into the past. In effect, you \'93replay\'94 the previous round of activity. The power regresses time to the point along the time stream just prior to your previous turn, undoing the effects of everyone else\rquote 
s actions in the meantime. Once you have used }{\i time regression, }{
only you retain knowledge of what happened during the round that is being replayed; however, you can communicate that knowledge verbally to your companions, if desired. During the round that you live through a second time, you can act on knowledge yo
u previously gained by already living through the immediate future. In all likelihood, you\rquote ll probably not choose to manifest }{\i time regression }{
during your second pass through the time stream, instead taking completely new actions, but you pay the XP cost all the same.
\par }{\i XP Cost: }{1,000 XP.
\par 
\par Timeless Body
\par Psychoportation
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 9
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 round
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 17
\par Your body ignores all harmful (and helpful) effects, beginning when you finish manifesting this power and ending at the end of your next turn. While }{\i timeless body }{is in effect, you are invulnerable to all attacks and powers.
\par This power cannot be quickened.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Tongues, Psionic
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 2
\par }{\b Display:}{ None
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 10 min./level
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 3
\par As the }{\i tongues }{spell, except as noted here. This power does not enable you to speak with creatures immune to mind-affecting powers.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Tornado Blast
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychokinesis
\par }{\b Level:}{ Kineticist 9
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory and visual; see text
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 round
\par }{\b Range:}{ Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level)
\par }{\b Area:}{ 40-ft.-radius spread
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Reflex half; see text
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ No
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 17
\par You induce the formation of a slender vortex of fiercely swirling air. When you manifest it, a vortex of air visibly and audibly snakes out from your outstretched hand.
\par If you want to aim the vortex at a specific creature, you can make a ranged touch attack to strike the creature. If you succeed, direct contact with the vortex deals 8d6 points of damage to the creature (no save).
\par Regardless of whether your ranged touch attack hits (and even if you forgo the attack), all creatures 
in the area (including the one possibly damaged by direct contact) are picked up and violently dashed about, dealing 17d6 points of damage to each one. Creatures that make a successful Reflex save take half damage.
\par After being dashed about, each creature t
hat was affected finds itself situated in a new space 1d4 x 10 feet away from its original space in a random direction. Walls and other barriers can restrict this relocation; in such a case, the creature ends up adjacent to the barrier.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every additional power point you spend, this power\rquote 
s area damage (not the damage from direct contact dealt to a specific creature) increases by 1d6 points (to a maximum of 24d6 points). For each extra 2d6 points of damage, this power\rquote s save DC increases by 1.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Touchsight
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 3
\par }{\b Display:}{ Visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal; see text
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 min./level (D)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 5
\par You generate a subtle telekinetic field of mental contact, allowing you to \'93feel\'94 your surroundings even in total darkness or when your sight would otherwise be obscured by your physical environment. Your }{\i touchsight }{
field emanates from you out to 60 feet. You ignore invisibility, darkness, and concealment, though you must have l
ine of effect to a creature or an object to discern it. You do not need to make Spot or Listen checks to notice creatures; you can detect and pinpoint all creatures within 60 feet. In many circumstances, comparing your regular senses to what you learn wit
h }{\i touchsight }{is enough to tell you the difference between visible, invisible, hiding, and concealed creatures.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every 2 additional power points you spend, the radius of your }{\i touchsight }{field increases by 10 feet.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Tower of Iron Will
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 5
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 immediate action
\par }{\b Range:}{ 10 ft.
\par }{\b Area:}{ 10-ft.-radius emanation centered on you
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 round
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None (harmless)
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes (harmless)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 9
\par You generate a bastion of thought so strong that it offers protection to you and everyone around you, improving the self-control of all. You and all creatures in the power\rquote s area gain power resistance 19 against all mindaffecting powers.
\par You can manifest this power instantly, quickly enough to gain its benefits in an emergency. Manifesting the power is an immediate action, like manifesting a quickened power, and it counts toward the normal limit of one quickened power per round.
\par You can use this power even when it is not your turn.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every additional power point you spend, this power\rquote s duration increases by 1 round and the power resistance it provides increases by 1 point.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Trace Teleport
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 4
\par }{\b Display:}{ Visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b Area:}{ Spread with a radius of 25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels, centered on you
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ No
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 7
\par As }{\i detect teleportation}{, except you can trace the destination of any psionic or magical teleportation made by others within this power\rquote s area within the last minute.
\par You know the direction and distance the individuals traveled and could teleport to the location yourself if you so desired (and if you know the }{\i psionic teleport }{power), as if you had \'93seen casually\'94
 the location. This power does not grant you any information on the conditions at the other end of the trace beyond the mental coordinates of the location.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ If you spend 2 additional power points, this power\rquote s range increases to Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level).
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {True Creation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Metacreativity (Creation)
\par }{\b Level:}{ Shaper 9
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 17, XP
\par As }{\i psionic major creation}{, except items created are enduring and cannot be negated by dispelling magic or negating powers. For all intents and purposes, these items are completely real.
\par }{\i XP Cost: }{1/5 of the item\rquote s gold piece value, or a minimum of 1 XP.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {True Metabolism
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 8
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 round
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 min./level
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 15
\par You are difficult to kill while this power persists. You automatically heal damage at the rate of 10 hit points per round.
\par This power is not effective against damage from starvation, thirst, or suffocation. Also, attack forms that don\rquote t deal hit point damage (for example, most poisons) ignore }{\i true metabolism}{
. You can also use this power to regrow lost portions of your body and to reattach severed limbs or body parts, i
f you do nothing but concentrate on regrowing the lost body part or reattaching the severed limb for the duration of the power. You do not gain the benefits described earlier when you manifest }{\i true metabolism }{
for this purpose. You must have a Constitution score to gain any of this power\rquote s benefits.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {True Seeing, Psionic
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 5
\par }{\b Display:}{ Visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 min./level
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 9
\par As the }{\i true seeing }{power, except as noted here. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Truevenom
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psychic warrior 4
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material; see text
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 swift action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 min./level or until discharged
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None and Fortitude negates; see text
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 7
\par If you have a claw attack (either from an actual natural weapon or from an effect such as }{\i claws of the beast}{), you can use this power to produce a horrible poison that coats one of your claws. On your next successful melee attack with the claw d
uring the power\rquote s duration, the poison deals 1d8 points of Constitution damage immediately and another 1d8 points of Constitution damage 1 minute later. The target of your attack can negate each instance of damage with a Fortitude save.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Truevenom Weapon
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism (Creation)
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psychic warrior 4
\par }{\b Range:}{ Touch
\par }{\b Target:}{ Weapon touched
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 7
\par As }{\i truevenom}{, except your weapon gains the poison coating as long as it remains in your grip, until the effect is discharged, or until the duration expires, whichever occurs first.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Ubiquitous Vision
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 3, psychic warrior 3
\par }{\b Display:}{ Visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 10 min./level (D)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 5
\par You have metaphoric \'93eyes in the back of your head,\'94
 and on the sides and top as well, granting you benefits in specific situations. In effect, you have a 360-degree sphere of sight, allowing you a perfect view of creatures that might otherwise flank you. Thus, flanking opponents gai
n no bonus on their attack rolls, and rogues are denied their sneak attack ability because you do not lose your Dexterity bonus (but they may still sneak attack you if you are caught flat-footed). Your Spot and Search checks gain a +4 enhancement bonus. C
oncurrently, you take a \endash 4 penalty on saves against all gaze attacks during the power\rquote s duration.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Ultrablast
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 7
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory; see text
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ 15 ft.
\par }{\b Area:}{ 15-ft.-radius spread centered on you
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will half
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 13
\par You \'93grumble\'94 psychically (which both psionic and nonpsionic creatures can detect), then release a horrid shriek from your subconscious that disrupts the brains of all enemies in the power\rquote s area, dealing 13d6 points of damage to each enemy.

\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every additional power point you spend, this power\rquote s damage increases by 1d6 points. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Vampiric Blade
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psychic warrior 3
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material and visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ 0 ft.
\par }{\b Target:}{ One weapon you hold
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 round/level
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 5
\par As }{\i claws of the vampire}{, except your weapon is affected as long as it remains in your grip or until this power\rquote s duration expires.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Vigor
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 1, psychic warrior 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material and olfactory
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 min./level
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par You suffuse yourself with power, gaining 5 temporary hit points. Using this power again when an earlier manifestation has not expired merely replaces the older temporary hit points (if any remain) with the newer ones.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every additional power point you spend, the number of temporary hit points you gain increases by 5.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Wall of Ectoplasm
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Metacreativity (Creation)
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 4
\par }{\b Display:}{ Visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b Effect:}{ Wall whose area is up to one 10-ft. square/level or a sphere or hemisphere with a radius of up to 1 ft./level
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 min./level (D)
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ No
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 7
\par You fashion a roiling wall of ectoplasm, imbuing it with solidity. The wall cannot move once it is formed. It is 1 i
nch thick per four manifester levels and occupies up to one 5-foot square per level. Each 5-foot square of the wall has 10 hit points per inch of thickness and hardness 5. A section of the wall whose hit points drop to 0 is breached. If a creature tries t
o break through the wall, the DC for the Strength check is 15 + 2 per inch of thickness.
\par The }{\i wall of ectoplasm }{is susceptible to }{\i dispel psionics}{, but it gains a +4 bonus on any check to determine whether the wall is negated. Spells, powers, and breath weapo
ns cannot pass through the wall in either direction (though they could damage it). It blocks ethereal creatures as well as material creatures (though ethereal creatures can usually get around the wall by floating under or over it through material floors a
nd ceilings). The wall is opaque, so neither vision nor gaze attacks operate through it. The wall does not block psychoportive travel, such as that provided by the }{\i psionic teleport }{power.
\par You can form the wall into a flat, vertical plane whose area is up to one 10-foot square per level or into a sphere or hemisphere with a radius of up to 1 foot per level.
\par The }{\i wall of ectoplasm }{must be continuous and unbroken when manifested. If its surface is interrupted by any object or creature, the power fails.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Wall Walker
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychoportation
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psychic warrior 2
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 min./level
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 3
\par You can walk on vertical surfaces or even traverse ceilings (you need not make Climb check
s to traverse these surfaces). Because of the need to keep at least one foot in contact with the wall or ceiling at all times, you cannot jump or use the run action, and you can move at only half speed.
\par You retain your Dexterity bonus to Armor Class, if any, and opponents gain no special bonuses against you. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Weapon of Energy
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychokinesis [see text]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psychic warrior 4
\par }{\b Display:}{ Visual
\par }{\b Range:}{ Touch
\par }{\b Target:}{ Weapon touched
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 round/level
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Fortitude negates (object, harmless)
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 7
\par As }{\i claw of energy, }{except this power can be manifested on a touched weapon. This power\rquote s subtype is the same as the type of energy infused in the touched weapon.
\par }}