{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f28\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f29\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f31\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f32\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f33\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f34\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f35\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f44\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}
{\f45\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f47\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f48\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f49\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}
{\f50\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f51\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{
\s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{\s4\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 4;}{\s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 5;}{\s7\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs20\cf6\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 7;}{\s9\qr \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 9;}{\*\cs10 \additive 
Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Preformatted;}
}{\*\revtbl {Unknown;}}{\info{\title PSIONIC ITEMS}{\author asmith}{\operator asmith}{\creatim\yr2004\mo4\dy7\hr11\min8}{\revtim\yr2004\mo4\dy7\hr11\min8}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages25}{\nofwords16248}{\nofchars92619}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws113742}
{\vern8229}}\margl1080\margr1080\margt1080\margb1080 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace78\dgvspace180\dghorigin1080\dgvorigin1080\dghshow2\dgvshow2
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 
This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{\f0\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {PSIONIC ITEMS
\par }\pard\plain \s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel4\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par USING ITEMS
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {To use a psionic item, it must be activated, although sometimes activation is accomplished simply by picking up an
 item or putting it on. Some items, once they are carried or worn, function constantly. In most cases, using an item requires a standard action that does not provoke attacks of opportunity. By contrast, power completion items (see below) are treated just 
like powers in combat and do provoke attacks of opportunity.
\par Activating a psionic item is a standard action unless the item description indicates otherwise. The manifesting time of a power is the time required to activate the same power in an item, whether it\rquote 
s a power stone, a dorje, or a psionic tattoo, unless the item description specifically states otherwise.
\par The four ways to activate psionic items are described below.
\par }{\b Power Completion:}{ This is the activation method for power stones. A power stone holds a power that is mostly finished. All that\rquote 
s left to do is perform the short, simple, finishing parts of the manifestation (the final mental coda, as it were). To use a power completion item safely, a character must be of high enough level in the appropriat
e class to manifest the power already. If he can\rquote t already manifest the power, there\rquote s a chance he\rquote ll make a mistake (see Brainburn in the power stone description
). Activating a power completion item is a standard action and provokes attacks of opportunity exactly as manifesting a power does.
\par Powers stored in power completion items are usually not augmented, because the manifester level of such an item is assumed to be the minimum necessary to manifest the stored power. However, an item\rquote s description may sp
ecify otherwise (some power stones have manifester levels higher than the minimum required to manifest the stored power, and are then assumed to be augmented as well).
\par }{\b Power Trigger:}{ This is the activation method for dorjes and psicrowns. It requires the s
pecial knowledge of power manifestation that a character of the appropriate class would know, and the formation of the appropriate command thought. If a power is on a character\rquote 
s power list, the character knows how to use a power trigger item that stores t
hat power. The user must still determine what power is stored in the item before she can activate it. Activating a power trigger item is a standard action that does not provoke attacks of opportunity.
\par Powers stored in power trigger items are not augmented.
 Such powers are assumed to be stored in the item at the minimum manifester level necessary to manifest the power. However, certain items may specify a higher manifester level than necessary. If such an item holds a power that deals hit point damage, the 
power is assumed to be augmented to the maximum allowed by the power and the manifester level.
\par }{\b Command Thought:}{ If no activation method is suggested either in the psionic item description or by the nature of the item, assume that a command thought is needed
 to activate it. Command thought activation means that a character mentally projects a thought, and the item activates. No other special knowledge is needed. Activating a command thought psionic item is a standard action that does not provoke attacks of o
pportunity. 
\par Sometimes the command thought to activate an item is mentally imprinted within it and is whispered into the mind of a creature who picks it up. Other items are silent, but a Knowledge (psionics) or Knowledge (history) check might be useful in h
elping to identify command thoughts. A successful DC 30 check is needed to come up with the command thought in this case. The power }{\i psionic identify }{reveals command thoughts.
\par Powers stored in command thought items are usually not augmented, because the manifester level of such an item is assumed to be the minimum possible to manifest the stored power.
\par }{\b Use-Activated: }{This type of psionic item simply has to be used to activate. Use activation is generally straightforward and self-explanatory.
\par Many use-activat
ed items are objects that a character wears. Some items made for wearing must still be activated. Although this activation sometimes requires a command thought (see above), usually it means mentally willing the activation to happen  (a free action). The d
escription of an item states whether a command thought is needed in such a case.
\par Unless stated otherwise, activating a use-activated psionic item is either a standard action or not an action at all and does not provoke attacks of opportunity, unless the use
 involves performing an action that provokes attacks of opportunity in itself. If the use of the item takes time before a psionic effect occurs, then use activation is a standard action. If the item\rquote 
s activation is subsumed in its use and takes no extra time, use activation is not an action at all.
\par Use activation doesn\rquote t mean that if you use an item, you automatically know what it can do. You must know (or at least guess) what the item can do and then use the item to activate it, unless the benefit of the item comes automatically.
\par Powers stored in use-activated items are usually not augmented, because the manifester level of such an item is assumed to be the minimum possible to manifest the stored power.
\par }{\fs24 
\par SAVING THROWS AGAINST PSIONIC ITEM POWERS
\par }{Psionic items produce psionic powers. The DC of a saving throw against a power from a psionic item is always 10 + the level of the power or effect + the ability modifier of the minimum ability score needed to manifest that level of power.
\par Another way to figure the same number is to multiply the power\rquote s level by 1-1/2 and add 10 to the result.
\par Psicrowns are an exception to the rule. Treat the saving throw as if the wielder manifested the power, including caster level and all modifiers to save DC.
\par Some psionic items take advantage of the fact that powers can be augmented to increase their saving throw DCs. These items are special and have their cost to create and market price calculated using the manifester\rquote s level instead of the power
\rquote s level.
\par Most item descriptions give saving throw DCs for various effects, particularly when the effect has no exact power equivalent (making its level otherwise difficult to quickly determine).
\par }{\fs24 
\par DAMAGING PSIONIC ITEMS
\par }{A psionic item doesn\rquote t need to make a saving throw unless it is unattend
ed, it is specifically targeted by the effect, or its wielder rolls a natural 1 on his saving throw. Psionic items should always get a save against powers or spells that might deal damage to them\emdash 
even against attacks from which a mundane item would normally get no chance to save. All types of psionic item saves\emdash Fortitude, Reflex, and Will\emdash are calculated the same way: The item\rquote 
s saving throw bonus equals 2 + 1/2 its manifester level (round down). The only exceptions to this rule are intelligent psionic items, which make Will saves based on their own Wisdom scores.
\par A psionic item, unless otherwise noted, takes damage as a normal item of the same type. A damaged psionic item continues to function, but if it is destroyed, all its psionic power is lost.
\par }{\fs22 
\par REPAIRING ITEMS
\par }{Some psionic items (especially psionic weapons and shields) may take damage over the course of an adventure. It costs no more to repair a psionic item with the Craft skill than it does to repair its nonpsionic counterpart. The }{\i make whole }{
spell can repair a damaged\emdash but not completely broken\emdash  psionic item.
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel4\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {INTELLIGENT ITEMS
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
Some psionic items, particularly weapons, have an intelligence all their own. Only permanent psionic items (as opposed to those that are single-use items, those that have charges,
 or those that store power points) can be intelligent. (This means that psionic tattoos, power stones, and dorjes, among other items, are never intelligent.) In general, less than 1% of psionic items have intelligence. 
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel4\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {CURSED ITEMS
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Some psionic items are cursed\emdash 
incorrectly made, or corrupted by outside forces. Cursed items might be particularly dangerous to the user, or they might be normal items with a minor f law, an inconvenient requirement, or an unpredictable nature. Randomly generated items are curs
ed 5% of the time.
\par }{\fs18 
\par }{\fs24 CHARGES AND MULTIPLE USES
\par }{Some items are limited in power by the number of charges they hold or the number of power points they contain. Normally, charged items (such as dorjes) have 50 charges at most. If such an item is found as a ran
dom part of a treasure, roll d% and divide by 2 to determine the number of charges left (round down, minimum 1).
\par Similarly, items that contain power points (such as psicrowns) have a number of points equal to 50 x the manifester level of the creator. If su
ch an item is found as a random part of a treasure, roll d% and divide by 2 to determine the number by which the manifester level is multiplied (round down, minimum 1).
\par Market prices given on the tables are always for fully charged or fully powered items. (When an item is created, it is fully charged or fully powered.) For an item that\rquote 
s worthless when its charges or power points run out (which is the case for almost all charged or powered items), the value of the partially used item is proportional to the 
number of charges left. For an item that has usefulness in addition to its charges, only part of the item\rquote s value is based on the number of charges left.
\par Some items are single-use and expendable. Such items can often be found in sets or groups.
\par }{\fs18 
\par }{\fs24 MAGIC ITEMS FOR PSIONIC CHARACTERS
\par }{Many magic items can aid psionic characters. The table below provides some possibilities.
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\pard\plain 
\s7\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel6\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\cf6\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cf0 Table: Magic\endash Psionics Equivalencies\cell }\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1659\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b Magic Item\cell 
}\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psionic Effect\cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx1659\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Helm of telepathy\cell }{Substitute power for spell\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1659\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Pearl of power\cell }{Treat in all ways as a }{\i cognizance crystal }{
with power point capacity appropriate to the equivalent power level\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1659\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Crystal ball \cell }{Substitute power for spell \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1659\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Ioun stones\cell \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1659\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Vibrant purple \cell Stores three levels of psionic powers\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1659\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Pale lavender \cell Absorbs powers up to 4th level (burns out as normal)\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1659\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx10188\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Rainbow}{\b\super 1}{ \cell }{Provides 5 power points per day (regenerates)\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1659\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Dull gray}{\b\super 2}{ \cell }{Provides 1 power point to a psionic character, then disintegrates\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1659\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1 New item: Treat as a }{\i cognizance crystal }{in }{\i ioun stone }{
form, except that it regenerates its stored power points each day; Price 16,000 gp.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {
2 Dull gray stones are useless for magic but still harbor just enough resonance that a psionic character can eke out 1 power point before the stone is gone forever.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10188\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24 

\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {PSIONIC ITEM DESCRIPTIONS
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {In the following secti
ons, each type of psionic item, such as armor or psionic tattoos, has a general description, followed by descriptions of specific items.
\par General descriptions include notes on activation, random generation, and other information. The Armor Class, hardness, 
hit points, and break DC are given for typical examples of some types of psionic items. The Armor Class assumes that the item is unattended and includes a \endash 5 penalty for the item\rquote 
s effective Dexterity of 0. If a creature holds the item, use the creature\rquote s Dexterity modifier as an adjustment to Armor Class in place of the \endash 5 penalty.
\par Some individual items, notably those that simply store psionic powers, don\rquote t get full-blown descriptions. Simply reference the power\rquote s description. Assume that the power is mani
fested at the minimum level required to manifest it, unless otherwise noted. Increasing the manifester level so increases the cost of the item; see Table: Estimating Magic Item Gold Piece Value,}{\i  }{substituting \'93spell\'94 for \'93power\'94 and \'93
caster level\'94 for \'93manifester level\'94 as appropriate. The main reason to make the manifester level higher, or course, would be to increase the potency of the power. Raising the manifester level is common for powers such as }{\i astral construct}{
, the duration of which increases with the level of the manifester.
\par Items with full descriptions have their abilities detailed, and each of the following aspects of these items is summarized at the end of the description.
\par }{\b Aura:}{ Most of the time, a }{\i detect psionics }{power will reveal the discipline associated with a psionic item and the strength of the aura an item emits. This information (when applicable) is given at the beginning of the item\rquote 
s notational entry in the form of a phrase. See the }{\i detect psionics }{power description for more information.
\par }{\b Manifester Level:}{ The next entry in the summary indicates the level of the creator (or the manifester level of the powers placed within the item, if this level is lower than the actual level of the creator). The manifester level provides the item
\rquote s saving throw bonus, as well as range and other level-dependent aspects of the powers of the item (if variable).
\par It also determines the level that must be contended with should the item come under the effect of a }{\i dispel psionics }{power or a similar situation. This information is given in the form \'93ML x,\'94 where \'93ML\'94 is an abbreviation for manifester

\par level and \'93x\'94 is an ordinal number representing the manifester level itself.
\par For psionic tattoos, power stones, and dorjes, the creator can set the manifester level of an
 item at any number high enough to manifest the stored power and not higher than her own manifester level. For other psionic items, the item itself determines the manifester level. In this case, the creator\rquote 
s manifester level must be as high as the item\rquote s manifester level (and prerequisites may effectively put a higher minimum on the creator\rquote s level).
\par }{\b Prerequisites:}{ Certain requirements must be met in order for a character to create a psionic item. These include feats, powers, and miscellaneous requirements
 such as level, alignment, and race or kind. The prerequisites for creation of an item are given in the summary immediately following the item\rquote s manifester level.
\par A power prerequisite can be provided by a character who knows the power, or through the use o
f a power completion or power trigger psionic item or a psi-like ability that produces the desired power effect. For each day that passes during the creation process, the creator must expend one power completion item (such as a power stone) or 1 charge fr
om a power trigger item (such as a dorje), if either of those objects is used to supply a prerequisite.
\par It is possible for more than one character to cooperate in the creation of an item, with each participant providing one or more of the prerequisites. In 
some cases, cooperation may even be necessary, such as if one character knows some of the powers necessary to create an item and another character knows the rest.
\par If two or more characters cooperate to create an item, they must agree among themselves who will be considered the creator for the purpose of determinations where the creator\rquote s level must be known. (It\rquote 
s sensible, although not mandatory, for the highest-level character involved to be considered the creator.) The character designated as the creator pays the experience points required to make the item.
\par Typically, a list of prerequisites includes one feat and one or more powers (or some other requirement in addition to the feat). When two powers at the end of a list are separated by \'93or,\'94 one of those
 powers is required in addition to every other power mentioned prior to the last two.
\par }{\b Market Price:}{ This gold piece value, given in the summary following the word \'93Price,\'94 represents the price someone should expect to pay to buy the item. Market prices are
 also included on the random generation tables for easy reference. The market price of an item that can be constructed with a psionic item creation feat is usually equal to the base price + the price for any components (special materials or experience poi
nt expenditure).
\par }{\b Cost to Create:}{ The cost in gold pieces and experience points to create the item is given in the summary following the word \'93Cost.\'94 This information appears only for items with components (material or experience points) that make their mark
et prices higher than their base prices. The cost to create includes the costs derived from the base cost plus the cost of the components. Items without components do not have a \'93Cost\'94
 entry. For them, the market price and base price are the same. The cost in gold pieces is 1/2 the market price, and the cost in experience points is 1/25 the market price. 
\par }{\b Weight: }{The notational entry for many items ends with a value for the item\rquote s weight. When a weight figure is not given, the item has no weight worth noting (for the purpose of determining how much of a load a character can carry).
\par }\pard\plain \s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel4\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par RANDOM PSIONIC ITEMS
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6301\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Table: Random Psionic Item Generation}{\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6301\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx2463\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6301\pard\plain \s1\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Minor\cell Medium
\cell Major\cell }\pard \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0 {Item\cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b 
\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2463\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6301\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {01\endash 02\cell 01\endash 05\cell 01\endash 05\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Armor, possibly with special ability\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2463\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6301\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {03\endash 04\cell 06\endash 10\cell 06\endash 10\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Shield, possibly with special ability
\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2463\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6301\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {05\endash 06\cell 11\endash 15\cell 11\endash 15\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {
Melee weapon, possibly with special ability\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx2463\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6301\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {08\endash 09\cell 16\endash 20\cell 16\endash 20\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Ranged weapon, possibly with special ability\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2463\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6301\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {10\endash 40\cell 21\endash 40
\cell 21\endash 35\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Cognizance crystal}{\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2463\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6301\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {41\endash 46\cell 41\endash 50
\cell 36\endash 45\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Dorje\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2463\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6301\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {47\endash 81\cell 51\endash 68
\cell 46\endash 67\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Power stone\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2463\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6301\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {82\endash 87\cell 69\endash 82
\cell 68\endash 75\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Psicrown\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2463\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6301\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {88\endash 93\cell 83\endash 89
\cell 76\endash 87\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Psionic tattoo\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2463\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6301\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {94\endash 100\cell \emdash 
\cell \emdash \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Minor universal item\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2463\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6301\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell 90\endash 100
\cell \emdash \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Medium universal item\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2463\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6301\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx2463\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6301\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell \emdash \cell 88\endash 100\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Major universal item\cell 
}\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2463\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6301\row }\pard\plain 
\s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel4\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par ARMOR AND SHIELDS
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {In general, psionic armor and shields follow the rules for the equivalent magic items, as 
far as enhancement bonuses, stacking, and other base abilities are concerned. An enhancement bonus is treated the same way regardless of whether magic or psionics created it.
\par Psionic armor and shields differ from standard and magical equivalents in that ps
ionic armor and shields incorporate one or more crystals into their construction. Particularly powerful armor and shields may be entirely composed of brightly hued or transparent crystals.
\par }{\b Special Qualities:}{ Roll d%. An 01 result indicates the item is intelligent, an 02\endash 31 result indicates that the command thought (if any) is psionically imprinted and whispers itself into the user\rquote s mind on acquisition, and 32\endash 
100 indicates no special qualities.
\par Intelligent items have extra abilities and sometimes also extraordinary powers and special purposes. Substitute manifesting for spellcasting as required.
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6738 \cellx6630\pard\plain 
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Table: Psionic Armor Special Abilities}{\b0 \cell }\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6738 \cellx6630\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1675\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2473\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2049 \cellx4622\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1914 \cellx6630\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b Minor\cell Medium\cell Major\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b Special Ability\cell }\pard\plain 
\s9\qr \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel8\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Base Price Modifier\cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1675\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2473\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2049 \cellx4622\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1914 \cellx6630\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {01\endash 30\cell 01\endash 07\cell 01\endash 03
\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Quickness\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+1 bonus}{\b\super 1}{\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1675\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2473\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2049 \cellx4622\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1914 \cellx6630\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {31\endash 74\cell 08\endash 30\cell 04\endash 05\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Landing\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+4,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1675\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2473\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2049 \cellx4622\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1914 \cellx6630\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {75\endash 80\cell 31\endash 46\cell 06\endash 10\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Floating\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+4,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1675\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2473\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2049 \cellx4622\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1914 \cellx6630\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {81\endash 96\cell 47\endash 55\cell 11\endash 20\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Linked\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+6,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1675\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2473\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2049 \cellx4622\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1914 \cellx6630\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {97\cell 56\endash 66\cell 21\endash 30\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Seeing\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+6,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1675\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2473\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2049 \cellx4622\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1914 \cellx6630\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {98\cell 67\endash 75\cell 31\endash 40\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Power resistance (13)\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+2 bonus}{\b\super 1}{\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1675\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2473\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2049 \cellx4622\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1914 \cellx6630\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {99\cell 76\endash 83\cell 41\endash 50\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Ectoplasmic\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+10,800 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1675\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2473\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2049 \cellx4622\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1914 \cellx6630\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell 84\endash 89\cell 51\endash 60\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Gleaming\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+3 bonus}{\b\super 1}{\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1675\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2473\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2049 \cellx4622\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1914 \cellx6630\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell 90\endash 94\cell 61\endash 70\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Power resistance (15)\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+3 bonus}{\b\super 1}{\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1675\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2473\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2049 \cellx4622\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1914 \cellx6630\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell 95\endash 98\cell 71\endash 77\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Vanishing\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+3 bonus}{\b\super 1}{\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1675\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2473\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2049 \cellx4622\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1914 \cellx6630\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell 99\cell 78\endash 83\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Mindarmor\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+24,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1675\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2473\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2049 \cellx4622\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1914 \cellx6630\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell \emdash \cell 84\endash 89\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Power resistance (17)\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+4 bonus}{\b\super 1}{\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1675\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2473\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2049 \cellx4622\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1914 \cellx6630\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell \emdash \cell 90\endash 94\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Radiant\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+4 bonus}{\b\super 1}{\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1675\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2473\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2049 \cellx4622\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1914 \cellx6630\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell \emdash \cell 95\endash 96\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Aporter\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+40,320 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1675\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2473\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2049 \cellx4622\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1914 \cellx6630\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell \emdash \cell 97\endash 98\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Power resistance (19)\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+5 bonus}{\b\super 1}{\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1675\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2473\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2049 \cellx4622\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1914 \cellx6630\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell \emdash \cell 99\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Phasing\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+65,520 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1675\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2473\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2049 \cellx4622\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1914 \cellx6630\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {100\cell 100\cell 100\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Roll twice again}{\b\super 2}{\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx690\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1675\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2473\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2049 \cellx4622\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1914 \cellx6630\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6738 \cellx6630\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1 Add to enhancement bonus}{\i  }{to determine total market price.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6738 \cellx6630\row }\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6738 \cellx6630\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {
2 If you roll a special ability twice, only one counts. If you roll two versions of the same special ability, use the better.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6738 \cellx6630\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6582 \cellx6475\pard\plain 
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Table: Psionic Shield Special Abilities}{\b0 \cell }\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6582 \cellx6475\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx658\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1603\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2369\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2169 \cellx4551\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1913 \cellx6475\pard\plain \s1\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Minor\cell }\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Medium\cell Major\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b Special Ability\cell }\pard\plain \s9\qr \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel8\rin0\lin0 
\b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Base Price Modifier\cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx658\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1603\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2369\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2169 \cellx4551\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1913 \cellx6475\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {01\endash 35\cell 01\endash 05\cell 01\endash 03\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Heartening\cell 
}\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+720 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx658\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1603\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2369\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2169 \cellx4551\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1913 \cellx6475\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {35\endash 60\cell 06\endash 10\cell 04\endash 05\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Ranged\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+1 bonus}{\b\super 1}{\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx658\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1603\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2369\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2169 \cellx4551\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1913 \cellx6475\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {61\endash 89\cell 11\endash 15\cell 06\endash 10\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Linked\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+6,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx658\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1603\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2369\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2169 \cellx4551\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1913 \cellx6475\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {90\endash 97\cell 16\endash 35\cell 11\endash 24\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Power resistance (13)\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+2 bonus}{\b\super 1}{\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx658\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1603\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2369\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2169 \cellx4551\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1913 \cellx6475\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {98\cell 36\endash 58\cell 25\endash 34\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Manifester\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+10,800 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx658\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1603\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2369\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2169 \cellx4551\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1913 \cellx6475\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {99\cell 69\endash 88\cell 35\endash 44\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Averter\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+12,960 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx658\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1603\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2369\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2169 \cellx4551\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1913 \cellx6475\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell 89\endash 92\cell 45\endash 54\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Vanishing\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+3 bonus}{\b\super 1}{\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx658\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1603\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2369\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2169 \cellx4551\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1913 \cellx6475\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell 93\endash 96\cell 55\endash 64\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Power resistance (15)\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+3 bonus}{\b\super 1}{\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx658\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1603\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2369\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2169 \cellx4551\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1913 \cellx6475\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell 97\endash 98\cell 65\endash 74\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Wall\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+20,160 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx658\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1603\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2369\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2169 \cellx4551\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1913 \cellx6475\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell 99\cell 75\endash 81\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Mindarmor\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+24,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx658\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1603\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2369\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2169 \cellx4551\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1913 \cellx6475\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell \emdash \cell 82\endash 88\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Power resistance (17)\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+4 bonus}{\b\super 1}{\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx658\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1603\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2369\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2169 \cellx4551\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1913 \cellx6475\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell \emdash \cell 89\endash 93\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Aporter\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+40,320 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx658\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1603\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2369\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2169 \cellx4551\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1913 \cellx6475\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell \emdash \cell 94\endash 96\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Time buttress\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+5 bonus}{\b\super 1}{\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx658\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1603\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2369\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2169 \cellx4551\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1913 \cellx6475\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell \emdash \cell 97\endash 99\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Power resistance (19)\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+5 bonus}{\b\super 1}{\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx658\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1603\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2369\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2169 \cellx4551\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1913 \cellx6475\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {100\cell 100\cell 100\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Roll twice again}{\b\super 2}{\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx658\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1603\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2369\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2169 \cellx4551\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1913 \cellx6475\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6582 \cellx6475\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1 Add to enhancement bonus to determine total market price.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6582 \cellx6475\row }\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6582 \cellx6475\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {
2 If you roll a special ability twice, only one counts. If you roll two versions of the same special ability, use the better.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6582 \cellx6475\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psionic Armor and Shield Special Ability Descriptions
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
Most psionic armor and shields have only enhancement bonuses. Such items can also have one or more of the special abilities detailed below. Armor or a shield with a special ability must have at least a +1 enhancement bonus. 
\par }{\b Aporter:}{ As a standard action, a suit of aporter armor or an aporter shield transports the wearer and her equipment to any spot within 800 feet that she can visualize or specify, as the }{\i psionic dimension door }{
power. The armor or shield can transport the wearer in this fashion twice per day.
\par Moderate psychoportation; ML 10th; Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, }{\i psionic dimension door; }{Price +40,320 gp.
\par }{\b Averter:}{ On command, up to thre
e times per day, any creature to whom the wearer presents an averter shield must succeed on a DC 14 Will save or be overcome by a powerful aversion to the wielder (actually the shield), and will not approach within 30 feet. This is a mind-affecting compul
sion effect, as the }{\i aversion }{power.
\par Faint telepathy; ML 5th; Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, }{\i aversion; }{Price +12,960 gp.
\par }{\b Ectoplasmic:}{ As a standard action, ectoplasmic armor converts itself, its wearer, and all the wearer\rquote s equipment into }{\i ectoplasmic form }{for
 up to 5 minutes once per day, as the power of the same name. In this semisolid state, the wearer gains damage reduction 10/psionics.
\par Faint psychometabolism; ML 5th; Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, }{\i ectoplasmic form; }{Price +10,800 gp.
\par }{\b Floating:}{ This kind of armor is psionically buoyant in water or a similar liquid, negating the normal penalty for wearing armor when making Swim checks. Additionally, it grants a +4 circumstance bonus on Swim checks.
\par Faint psychoportation; ML 4th; Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, }{\i float; }{Price +4,000 gp.
\par }{\b Gleaming:}{ This kind of armor is usually made of crystal, though it doesn\rquote t have to be. Gleams and flashes from the armor give the wearer and his armor a \'93fuzzy\'94 appearance, granting the wearer concealment.
\par Faint metacreativity; ML 5th; Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, }{\i concealing amorpha; }{Price +3 bonus.
\par }{\b Heartening: }{This kind of shield grants the wearer up to 5 temporary hit points per day on command. These temporary hit points fade after 4 minutes. The wearer can activate this power as an immediate action at any time.
\par Faint psychometabolism; ML 4th; Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, }{\i vigor; }{Price +720 gp.
\par }{\b Landing:}{ A suit of armor with this capability allows the wearer to ignore any damage dealt by the first 60 feet of a fall. Regardless of the height of a fall, the wearer always lands on her feet.
\par Faint psychoportation; ML 4th; Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, }{\i catfall; }{Price +4,000 gp.
\par }{\b Linked:}{ This kind of armor or shield allows the wearer to form a telepathic bond with other wearers of linked armor or shields within 10 miles. This ability is otherwise similar to the }{\i mindlink }{power.
\par Moderate telepathy; ML 6th; Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, }{\i mindlink; }{Price +6,000 gp.
\par }{\b Manifester:}{ This kind of shield generates 3 power points once per day that the wearer can use when manifesting a power he knows. These power points must all be used on the same power. As usual, a psionic character cannot pay a power\rquote 
s cost with power points from more than one source, so the power points in the shield must be used for discrete manifestations.
\par Moderate clairsentience; ML 6th; Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, knowledge of any 2nd-level power; Price +10,800 gp.
\par }{\b Mindarmor:}{ This kind of armor or shield grants the wearer a +3 insight bonus on Will saving throws to resist all mind-affecting and/or compulsion powers.
\par Faint psychokinesis; ML 5th; Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, }{\i empty mind; }{Price +24,000 gp.
\par }{\b Phasing:}{ The wearer of this kind of armor can move through wooden, plaster, or stone walls, but not other materials. The wearer can c
all on this special ability as a standard action. When the phasing ability is active, the wearer can pass through a wall or some other kind of appropriate object for a total distance of 60 feet per day (see below), breaking this distance up into several s
maller passages or one long one, as desired. A wearer who exceeds this daily distance limit while inside solid material is ejected from the material at the point of entry, ending up prone in front of the now impassable barrier.
\par Phasing through a wall that separates two adjacent squares on the grid counts as 5 feet of distance. Phasing through a wall or barrier of any greater thickness counts as a distance equal to the barrier\rquote s thickness plus 5 feet.
\par feet of distance.
\par Strong psychoportation; ML 13th; Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, }{\i psionic phase door; }{Price +65,520 gp.
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ This kind of armor or shield grants the wearer power resistance while it is worn. The power resistance can be 13, 15, 17, or 19, depending on the amount that was built into the armor or shield.
\par Moderate clairsentience; ML 9th; Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, }{\i power resistance; }{Price +2 bonus (PR 13); +3 bonus (PR 15); +4 bonus (PR 17); or +5 bonus (PR 19).
\par }{\b Quickness: }{This kind of armor increases the wearer\rquote s speed by 5 feet. Thus, a character whose normal speed in armor is 20 feet moves 25 feet in }{\i armor of quickness. 
\par }{Faint psychoportation; ML 4th; Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, }{\i burst; }{Price +1 bonus.
\par }{\b Radiant:}{ The wearer of this kind of armor gains resistance 10 against energy attacks
 (acid, cold, electricity, fire, or sonic). The armor absorbs the first 10 points of damage dealt by any such attack, and this absorption causes it to radiate light for a number of rounds equal to the points of damage absorbed. This light is sufficient to
 illuminate a 60-foot-radius area.
\par If the armor absorbs more damage while it is radiating light, the newer radiant effect overlaps (does not stack with) the effect that was already in place. 
\par Moderate psychokinesis; ML 9th; Craft Psionic Arms and Armor; }{\i energy adaptation; }{Price +4 bonus.
\par }{\b Ranged:}{ The wielder of a ranged shield can throw it in combat, with a range increment of 30 feet. While in the air, the shield is treated in all ways as a ranged weapon and cannot be blocked or grabbed except by those with a
ppropriate feats. No matter the size of the wielder, a buckler or light shield deals 1d6 points of damage and a heavy one 1d8 points. (A tower shield cannot be created with this special ability.) The wielder\rquote s Strength modifier and the shield
\rquote s enhancement bonus add to the base damage.
\par A ranged shield flies through the air back to the creature that threw it. It returns to the wielder just before the creature\rquote s next turn (and is therefore ready to use again in that turn).
\par Catching a ranged shield when it comes back is a free action. If the wielder can\rquote t catch it, or if the wielder has moved since throwing it, the shield drops to the ground in the square from which it was thrown.
\par Faint psychokinesis; ML 5th; Craft Psionic Arms and Armor}{\i , far hand; }{Price +1 bonus.
\par }{\b Seeing:}{
 This kind of armor grants a wider than normal field of vision, so that opponents flanking the wearer gain only a +1 bonus on their attack rolls instead of +2 (rogues still get their full sneak attack damage because the wearer is still flanked).
 The wearer gains a +1 enhancement bonus on Spot checks but takes a \endash 2 penalty on saves against gaze attacks.
\par Faint clairsentience; ML 5th; Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, }{\i ubiquitous vision; }{Price +6,000 gp.
\par }{\b Time Buttress:}{ This kind of shield gives the wielder a chance to avoid telling blows by using time itself as a shield. Once per day, the wielder can use }{\i timeless body }{as though manifesting the power.
\par Strong psychoportation; ML 17th; Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, }{\i timeless body; }{Price +5 bonus.
\par }{\b Vanishing: }{On command, this suit of armor or shield renders its wearer and all the wearer\rquote s equipment invisible to the minds of others, as if he had manifested the power }{\i cloud mind}{. The wearer can use this ability twice per day.

\par Faint psychokinesis; ML 5th; Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, }{\i cloud mind; }{Price +3 bonus.
\par }{\b Wall:}{ As a standard action once per day, the wielder can drop this kind of shield at his feet and command a }{\i wall of ectoplasm }{(as the power) to come into being, with the shield as the point of origin for the 
effect. This effect forms a wall whose area is up to twelve 10-foot squares or a sphere or hemisphere with a radius of up to 12 feet. The wall dissipates after 7 minutes, or sooner if the wielder of the shield reclaims it (thus dismissing the effect).

\par Strong metacreativity; ML 12th; Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, }{\i wall of ectoplasm}{; Price +20,160 gp.
\par }{\fs24 
\par WEAPONS
\par }{Although they generally follow the rules for magic weapons, psionic weapons differ from mundane and magic weapons in their design. Most possess some cry
stal components, and some are composed entirely of crystal. Many also sport intricate traceries along the blade or haft, which flicker now and then as if channeling flows of psychic energy.
\par Psionic weapons have enhancement bonuses ranging from +1 to +5. Th
ey apply these bonuses on both attack and damage rolls when used in combat. This enhancement bonus is effective for the purpose of overcoming creatures with damage resistance that is penetrated by magic. All psionic weapons are also masterwork weapons, bu
t their masterwork bonus on attack rolls does not stack with their enhancement bonus on attack rolls.
\par Weapons come in two basic categories: melee and ranged. Some of the weapons listed as melee weapons can also be used as ranged weapons. In this case, their enhancement bonus applies to either type of attack. 
\par In addition to enhancement bonuses, psionic weapons can also have the special abilities detailed here. A weapon with a special ability must have at least a +1 enhancement bonus.
\par The rules for manifester
 level for weapons (called caster level), additional damage dice, ranged weapons and ammunition, ammunition and breakage, hardness and hit points, critical hits, and weapons for unusually sized creatures for psionic weapons are the same as for magic weapo
ns}{\i . }{Psionic weapons do not have the chance to generate light (though some may be mentally audible; see below).
\par }{\b Mentally Audible:}{ Fully 30% of psionic weapons telepathically mutter, croon, recite battle poems, scream, or produce other mental \'93noises\'94 when fi
rst drawn, at first blood, or when they slay a significant enemy. Such a weapon cannot be concealed from creatures within 15 feet when it is drawn, nor can its mental \'93soundtrack\'94 be curbed.
\par }{\b Activation:}{ Usually a character benefits from a psionic weapon in the same way a character benefits from a mundane weapon\emdash 
by attacking with it. If a weapon has a special ability that the user needs to activate, then the user usually needs to project a command thought (a standard action).
\par }{\b 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth7516 \cellx7408\pard\plain 
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Table: Psionic Melee Weapon Special Abilities\cell }\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth7516 \cellx7408\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1241 \cellx1211\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1208 \cellx2495\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3362\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1889 \cellx5370\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7408\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b Minor\cell Medium\cell Major\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b Special Ability\cell }\pard\plain 
\s9\qr \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel8\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Base Price Modifier\cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1241 \cellx1211\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1208 \cellx2495\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3362\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1889 \cellx5370\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7408\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {01\endash 15\cell 01
\endash 10\cell \emdash \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Psychokinetic\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+1 bonus}{\b\super 1}{\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1241 \cellx1211\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1208 \cellx2495\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3362\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1889 \cellx5370\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7408\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {16\endash 45\cell 11
\endash 25\cell 01\endash 09\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Dissipater\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+1 bonus}{\b\super 1}{\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1241 \cellx1211\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1208 \cellx2495\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3362\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1889 \cellx5370\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7408\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {46\endash 55\cell 26
\endash 30\cell 10\endash 12\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Lucky\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+1 bonus}{\b\super 1}{\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1241 \cellx1211\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1208 \cellx2495\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3362\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1889 \cellx5370\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7408\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {56\endash 70\cell 31
\endash 40\cell 13\endash 17\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Sundering\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+1 bonus}{\b\super 1}{\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1241 \cellx1211\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1208 \cellx2495\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3362\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1889 \cellx5370\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7408\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {71\endash 80\cell 41
\endash 46\cell 18\endash 21\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Power storing\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+1 bonus}{\b\super 1}{\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1241 \cellx1211\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1208 \cellx2495\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3362\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1889 \cellx5370\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7408\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {81\endash 99\cell 51
\endash 56\cell 22\endash 30\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Collision\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+2 bonus}{\b\super 1}{\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1241 \cellx1211\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1208 \cellx2495\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3362\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1889 \cellx5370\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7408\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell 57\endash 
65\cell 31\endash 37\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Mindcrusher\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+2 bonus}{\b\super 1}{\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1241 \cellx1211\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1208 \cellx2495\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3362\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1889 \cellx5370\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7408\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell 66\endash 
71\cell 38\endash 41\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Psychokinetic burst\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+2 bonus}{\b\super 1}{\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1241 \cellx1211\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1208 \cellx2495\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3362\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1889 \cellx5370\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7408\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell 72\endash 
75\cell 42\endash 49\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Suppression\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+2 bonus}{\b\super 1}{\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1241 \cellx1211\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1208 \cellx2495\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3362\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1889 \cellx5370\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7408\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell 76\endash 
78\cell 50\endash 58\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Psibane\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+2 bonus}{\b\super 1}{\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1241 \cellx1211\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1208 \cellx2495\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3362\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1889 \cellx5370\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7408\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell 79\endash 
81\cell 59\endash 61\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Parrying\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+8,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1241 \cellx1211\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1208 \cellx2495\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3362\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1889 \cellx5370
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7408\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell 82\endash 85\cell 62\endash 65\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {
Manifester\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+16,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1241 \cellx1211\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1208 \cellx2495\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3362\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1889 \cellx5370\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7408\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell 86\endash 88\cell 66\endash 71\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Bodyfeeder\cell 
}\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+3 bonus}{\b\super 1}{\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1241 \cellx1211\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1208 \cellx2495\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3362\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1889 \cellx5370\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7408\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell 89\endash 91\cell 72\endash 77\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Mindfeeder\cell 
}\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+3 bonus}{\b\super 1}{\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1241 \cellx1211\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1208 \cellx2495\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3362\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1889 \cellx5370\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7408\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell 92\endash 93\cell 78\endash 83\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Soulbreaker\cell 
}\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+3 bonus}{\b\super 1}{\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1241 \cellx1211\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1208 \cellx2495\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3362\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1889 \cellx5370\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7408\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell 94\cell 84\endash 86\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Psychic\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+35,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1241 \cellx1211\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1208 \cellx2495\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3362\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1889 \cellx5370\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7408\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell 95\cell 87\endash 90\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Coup de grace\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+5 bonus}{\b\super 1}{\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1241 \cellx1211\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1208 \cellx2495\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3362\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1889 \cellx5370\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7408\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {100\cell 96\endash 100\cell 91\endash 100\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Roll again twice}{
\b\super 2}{\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1241 \cellx1211\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1208 \cellx2495\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3362\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1889 \cellx5370\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7408\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth7516 \cellx7408\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1 Add to enhancement bonus to determine total market price.\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth7516 \cellx7408\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth7516 \cellx7408
\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {2 Reroll if you get a duplicate special ability, an ability incompatible with an ability that you\rquote ve already rolled, or if the extra ability puts you over the +10 limit. A weapon\rquote 
s enhancement bonus and special ability bonus equivalents can\rquote t total more than +10.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth7516 \cellx7408\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth8068 \cellx7960\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 
{\b Table: Psionic Ranged Weapon Special Abilities\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth8068 \cellx7960\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx858\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1558 \cellx2501\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1472 \cellx4053\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5940\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7960\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b Minor\cell Medium\cell Major\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b Special Ability\cell }\pard\plain 
\s9\qr \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel8\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Base Price Modifier\cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx858\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1558 \cellx2501\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1472 \cellx4053\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5940\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7960\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {01\endash 20\cell 01\endash 15
\cell \emdash \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Teleporting\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+1 bonus}{\b\super 1}{\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx858\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1558 \cellx2501\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1472 \cellx4053\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx5940\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7960\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {21\endash 40\cell 16\endash 30\cell \emdash \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Psychokinetic\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+1 bonus}{\b\super 1}{\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx858\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1558 \cellx2501\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1472 \cellx4053\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5940
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7960\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {41\endash 100\cell 31\endash 45\cell 01\endash 30\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 
{Collision\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+2 bonus}{\b\super 1}{\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx858\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1558 \cellx2501\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1472 \cellx4053\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5940\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7960\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell 46\endash 50\cell 31\endash 40\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Suppression\cell 
}\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+2 bonus}{\b\super 1}{\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx858\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1558 \cellx2501\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1472 \cellx4053\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5940\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7960\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell 51\endash 66\cell 41\endash 65\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Psychokinetic burst
\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+2 bonus}{\b\super 1}{\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx858\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1558 \cellx2501\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1472 \cellx4053\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5940\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7960\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell 67\endash 74\cell 66\endash 69\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Psibane\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+2 bonus}{\b\super 1}{\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx858\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1558 \cellx2501\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1472 \cellx4053\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5940\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7960\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell 75\endash 78\cell 70\endash 73\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Manifester\cell 
}\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+16,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx858\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1558 \cellx2501\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1472 \cellx4053\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5940\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7960\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell 79\endash 82\cell 74\endash 79\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Dislocator\cell 
}\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+3 bonus}{\b\super 1}{\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx858\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1558 \cellx2501\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1472 \cellx4053\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5940\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7960\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell 83\endash 98\cell 80\endash 90\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Great dislocator\cell 
}\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+4 bonus}{\b\super 1}{\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx858\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1558 \cellx2501\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1472 \cellx4053\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5940\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7960\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell \emdash \cell 91\endash 97\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Coup de grace\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+5 bonus}{\b\super 1}{\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx858\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1558 \cellx2501\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1472 \cellx4053\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5940\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7960\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell 99\endash 100\cell 98\endash 100\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Roll again twice}{
\b\super 2}{\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx858\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1558 \cellx2501\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1472 \cellx4053\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5940\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7960\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth8068 \cellx7960\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1 Add to enhancement bonus to determine total market price.\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth8068 \cellx7960\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth8068 \cellx7960
\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {2 Reroll if you get a duplicate special ability, an ability incompatible with an ability that you\rquote ve already rolled, or if the extra ability puts you over the +10 limit. A weapon\rquote 
s enhancement bonus and special ability bonus equivalents can\rquote t total more than +10.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth8068 \cellx7960\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psionic Weapon Special Ability Descriptions
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Most psionic weapons have only enhancement bonuses. They can also have the special 
abilities detailed here. A weapon with a special ability must have at least a +1 enhancement bonus.
\par }{\b Bodyfeeder:}{ All feeder weapons have a special ability that functions only upon scoring a successful critical hit. A bodyfeeder weapon grants its wielder tem
porary hit points equal to the total damage dealt by a successful critical hit. These temporary hit points last for 10 minutes. Thus, if the wielder of a bodyfeeder weapon successfully scores a critical hit while the wielder still enjoys temporary hit poi
nts from a previous critical hit, the wielder gains only the better of the two values: either his current number of temporary hit points, or the new influx of temporary hit points, whichever is higher.
\par Strong psychometabolism; ML 12th; Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, }{\i claws of the vampire; }{Price +3 bonus.
\par }{\b Collision: }{Collision weapons psionically increase their own mass at the end point of each swing or shot. Such weapons deal an extra 5 points of damage on each successful strike, in addition to the weapon\rquote s enh
ancement bonus. Bows, crossbows, and slings bestow the extra damage upon their ammunition.
\par Moderate metacreativity; ML 10th; Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, }{\i matter manipulation; }{Price +2 bonus.
\par }{\b Coup de Grace: }{Coup de grace weapons are exceptionally dangerous
. On a successful critical hit, the foe must succeed on a DC 27 Will save or be paralyzed for 1 round. While this ability does work on creatures that are immune to extra damage from critical hits, it does not work on creatures without an Intelligence scor
e. Bows, crossbows, and slings bestow this ability on their ammunition.
\par Strong telepathy; ML 19th; Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, }{\i psionic dominate; }{Price +5 bonus.
\par }{\b Dislocator:}{ The wielder of this kind of weapon can attempt to dislocate a designated foe up to three times per day. On a successful hit, the foe must succeed on a DC 17 Will save or be teleported 1\endash 
100 miles in a random direction. If the weapon misses, the use is wasted. Bows, crossbows, and slings bestow this ability on their ammunition.
\par Strong psychoportation; ML 12th; Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, }{\i psionic teleport; }{Price +3 bonus.
\par }{\b Dissipater: }{This kind of weapon is devastating to creatures and objects composed of or originally formed from ectoplasm (such as astral constructs, walls of ectoplasm, 
creatures in ectoplasmic form, and items created using the metacreativity discipline). Against qualifying targets, a dissipater weapon ignores damage reduction and hardness, and treats all successful hits as critical hits. 
\par Strong metacreativity; ML 12th; Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, }{\i dismiss ectoplasm; }{Price +1 bonus.
\par }{\b Great Dislocator:}{ The wielder of this kind of weapon can attempt to greatly dislocate a designated foe up to three times per day. On a successful hit, the foe must succeed on a DC 20 Will sav
e or be cast into a random alternate plane of existence. If the weapon misses, the use is wasted. Bows, crossbows, and slings bestow this ability upon their ammunition.
\par Strong psychoportation; ML 12th; Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, }{\i psionic plane shift}{; Price +4 bonus.
\par }{\b Lucky:}{ A lucky weapon offers a second chance at success. Once per day, the wielder can reroll a failed attack roll (whether a single attack or one in a series of multiple attacks) as a free action. The rerolled attack uses the same bonuses or 
penalties as the missed roll.
\par Moderate clairsentience; ML 8th; Craft Psionic Arms and Armor}{\i , fate of one; }{Price +1 bonus.
\par }{\b Manifester:}{ This kind of weapon generates 5 power points once per day that the wearer can use when manifesting a power he knows. These power points must all be used on the same power. As usual, a psionic character cannot pay a power\rquote 
s cost with power points from more than one source, so the power points in the shield must be used for discrete manifestations.
\par Moderate clairsentience; ML 8th; Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, knowledge of any 3rd-level power; Price +16,000 gp.
\par }{\b Mindcrusher:}{ Any psionic creature struck in combat by a mindcrusher weapon loses a number of power points equal to half the amount of hit point damage the weapon deals (o
nly the base damage of the weapon contributes to the power point loss; additional damage from high Strength or other sources does not cause additional power point loss). A psionic creature that is out of power points (or has none) must succeed on a DC 17 
Will save or take 1d2 points of Wisdom damage.
\par Strong psychometabolism; ML 12th; Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, }{\i psychic vampire; }{Price +2 bonus.
\par }{\b Mindfeeder: }{All feeder weapons have a special ability that functions only upon scoring a successful critical hit.
 A mindfeeder weapon grants its wielder temporary power points equal to the total damage dealt by a successful critical hit. These temporary power points last for 10 minutes. The wielder gains power points even if the target has none (effectively, its hit
 
point damage is converted to power points). Constructs and undead are not subject to mindfeeder weapons. As with temporary hit points, temporary power points do not stack with each other; they overlap. Thus, if a mindfeeder weapon successfully scores a cr
i
tical hit while the wielder still enjoys temporary power points from a previous critical hit, the wielder gains only the better of the two values: either her current number of temporary power points, or the new influx of temporary power points, whichever 
is higher.
\par Strong psychometabolism; ML 15th; Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, }{\i psychic vampire; }{Price +3 bonus.
\par }{\b Parrying: }{A parrying weapon perceives an instant into the future, and of its own accord resists melee and ranged attacks aimed at the wielder, granting a +1 insight bonus to the wielder\rquote 
s Armor Class. The weapon is so adept at parrying that it even affects incoming powers, granting the wielder a +1 insight bonus on saving throws. The bonuses are granted whenever the wielder holds the weapon, even if flat-footed.
\par Faint clairsentience; ML 5th; Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, }{\i defensive precognition; }{Price +8,000 gp.
\par }{\b Power Storing:}{ A power storing weapon allows a manifester to store a single targeted power of up to 5 power points in the weapon. (The power mus
t have a manifesting time of 1 standard action.) Any time the weapon strikes a creature and the creature takes damage from it, the weapon can immediately manifest the power on that creature as a swift action if the wielder desires. (This ability is an exc
e
ption to the rule that manifesting a power from an item takes at least as long as manifesting that power normally.) Once the power is manifested, the weapon is empty, and a manifester can imbed any other targeted power of up to 5 power points into it. The
 weapon telepathically whispers to the wearer the name of the power currently stored within it. A randomly generated power storing weapon has a 50% chance to have a power stored in it already.
\par Strong psychokinesis; ML 12th; Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, creator must be a manifester of at least 12th level; Price +1 bonus.
\par }{\b Psibane:}{ A psibane weapon is crafted to oppose psionic beings. When used against such creatures, its effective enhancement bonus is 2 higher than its actual enhancement bonus. It deals an ex
tra 2d6 points of damage against psionic opponents. It bestows one negative level on any psionic creature attempting to wield it. This negative level remains as long as the weapon is in hand and disappears when the weapon is no longer wielded. This negati
ve level never results in actual level loss, but it cannot be overcome in any way while the weapon is wielded. Psibane bows, crossbows, and slings bestow this ability upon their ammunition.
\par Strong clairsentience; ML 15th; Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, }{\i bend reality; }{Price +2 bonus.
\par }{\b Psychic:}{ A psychic weapon\rquote s power depends on its wielder. In the hands of a nonpsionic creature, the weapon possesses the qualities of a nonmagical, nonpsionic masterwork weapon. When wielded by a psionic creature, this weapon has 
an enhancement bonus based on the wielder\rquote s current power point reserve, as shown on the following table. The weapon\rquote 
s enhancement bonus decreases as the wielder spends power points, and it increases whenever the wielder gains enough power points (by any means) to put his power point reserve into the next higher category.
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1886\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3864\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b Power Point Reserve\cell }\pard\plain \s4\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Enhancement Bonus\cell }\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1886\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3864\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1886\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3864\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1\endash 4 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+1\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1886\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3864\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {5\endash 29 \cell 
}\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+2\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1886\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3864\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {30\endash 79 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+3\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1886\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx3864\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {80\endash 129 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+4\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1886\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3864\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1886\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3864\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {130 or higher \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+5\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1886\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3864\row 
}\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {Strong clairsentience; ML 17th; Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, }{\i reality revision; }{Price +35,000.
\par }{\b Psychokinetic:}{
 Upon command, a psychokinetic weapon glows from the inside with lethal psionic energy. The energy does not harm the hands that hold the weapon. Such a weapon deals an extra 1d4 points of damage on a successful hit. This extra damage i
s ectoplasmic in nature and is not affected by damage reduction. Bows, crossbows, and slings bestow this ability upon their ammunition.
\par Moderate psychokinesis}{\i ; }{ML 10th; Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, }{\i concussion blast; }{Price +1 bonus.
\par }{\b Psychokinetic Burst:}{ Th
is weapon functions as a psychokinetic weapon that also releases a blast of destructive psionic energy upon scoring a successful critical hit. In addition to the extra damage of the psychokinetic ability (see above), a psychokinetic burst weapon deals an 
extra 1d6 points of damage on a successful critical hit. If the weapon\rquote 
s critical multiplier is x3, add 2d6 points of extra damage instead, and if the multiplier is x4, add 3d6 points of extra damage. This extra damage is ectoplasmic in nature and is not af
fected by damage reduction. Bows, crossbows, and slings bestow this ability upon their ammunition.
\par Strong psychokinesis; ML 12th; Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, }{\i concussion blast; }{Price +2 bonus.
\par }{\b Soulbreaker:}{ This weapon has a special ability that functions 
only upon scoring a successful critical hit. On a successful critical hit, a soulbreaker weapon bestows one negative level on the foe. One day after being struck, if the negative levels have not been purged, the subject must succeed on a DC 18 Fortitude s
ave for each negative level or lose a character level.
\par Strong telepathy; ML 12th; Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, }{\i mindwipe; }{Price +3 bonus.
\par }{\b Sundering: }{This kind of weapon allows a wielder to attack opponents\rquote  weapons as if he had the Improved Sunder feat.
\par Faint metacreativity; ML 5th; Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, Great Sunder, }{\i metaphysical weapon; }{Price +1 bonus.
\par }{\b Suppression:}{ An opponent or object struck by this kind of weapon is subject to a targeted }{\i dispel psionics }{power. The wielder makes a power check (1d
20 + 5 + manifester level, maximum +15) against a DC of 11 + the manifester level of the power to be dispelled. Bows, crossbows, and slings bestow this ability upon their ammunition, but can do so only three times per day.
\par Moderate psychokinesis ML 10th; Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, }{\i dispel psionics; }{Price +2 bonus.
\par }{\b Teleporting:}{ This ability can be imbedded only in weapons that can be thrown. A teleporting weapon returns through the Astral Plane to the creature that threw it. It teleports into the throwing creature\rquote 
s empty hand in the round following the round when it was thrown, just before that creature\rquote s turn. It is therefore ready to use again on that turn.
\par Faint psychoportation; ML 5th; Craft Psionic Arms and Armor}{\i , psionic dimension door; }{Price +1 bonus.
\par }\pard\plain \s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel4\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par COGNIZANCE CRYSTALS
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i Cognizance crystals }{store power points that psionic characters can use to pay for manifesting their powers.
\par }{\b Physical Description: }{A }{\i cognizance crystal }{consists of a core crystal and two or three smaller crystals arranged in specific positions around it on strands of silver wire. The crystals give off a faint glow. A typical }{\i 
cognizance crystal }{weighs approximately 1 pound, has AC 7, 10 hit points, a hardness of 8, and a break DC of 16.
\par }{\b Activation:}{ The user must merely hold or have a c
rystal on her person for a period of at least 10 minutes (which is long enough to attune oneself to the crystal). Thereafter, the owner can use power points stored in the crystal to manifest powers she knows.
\par The maximum number of points a }{\i cognizance crystal }{can store is always an odd number and is never more than 17. It can store only as many power points as its original maximum, set at the time of its creation. When a }{\i cognizance crystal\rquote s 
}{power points are used up, the glow of the crystal dims. However, the user can recharge it by paying power points on a 1-for-1 basis. While doing this depletes the user\rquote 
s own power point reserve for the day, those power points remain available in the }{\i cognizance crystal }{until used.
\par A user cannot directly replenish her personal power points from those stored in a }{\i cognizance crystal, }{nor can she draw power points from more than one source to manifest a power. See Using Stored Power Points for more information.
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth5853 \cellx5745\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 
{\b Table: Cognizance Crystals}{\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth5853 \cellx5745\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx808\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1747\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2563\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1727 \cellx4290\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1455 \cellx5745\pard\plain \s1\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0 
\b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Minor\cell Medium\cell Major\cell Maximum Power Point Storage\cell }\pard \s1\qr \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0 {Market Price\cell }\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx808\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1747\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2563\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1727 \cellx4290\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1455 \cellx5745\row }\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx808\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1747\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2563\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1727 \cellx4290\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1455 \cellx5745\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {01\endash 90\cell 01\endash 40\cell \emdash \cell 1\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1,000 gp
\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx808\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1747\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2563\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1727 \cellx4290\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1455 \cellx5745\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {91\endash 
100\cell 41\endash 74\cell \emdash \cell 3\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {4,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx808\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1747
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2563\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1727 \cellx4290\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1455 \cellx5745\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell 75\endash 89\cell 01\endash 39\cell 5\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {9,000 gp\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx808\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1747\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2563\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1727 \cellx4290\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1455 \cellx5745\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell 90\endash 98
\cell 40\endash 59\cell 7\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {16,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx808\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1747
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2563\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1727 \cellx4290\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1455 \cellx5745\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell 99\endash 100\cell 60\endash 69\cell 9\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {25,000 gp\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx808\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1747\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2563\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1727 \cellx4290\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1455 \cellx5745\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell \emdash 
\cell 70\endash 70\cell 11\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {36,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx808\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1747
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2563\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1727 \cellx4290\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1455 \cellx5745\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell \emdash \cell 80\endash 89\cell 13\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {49,000 gp\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx808\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1747\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2563\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1727 \cellx4290\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1455 \cellx5745\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell \emdash 
\cell 90\endash 95\cell 15\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {64,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx808\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1747
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2563\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1727 \cellx4290\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1455 \cellx5745\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx808\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1747\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2563\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1727 \cellx4290\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1455 \cellx5745\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell \emdash \cell 96\endash 100\cell 17\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {81,000 gp\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth916 \cellx808\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1747\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2563\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1727 \cellx4290
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1455 \cellx5745\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {Faint to strong psychokinesis; ML equal to maximum power point storage; Craft Cognizance Crystal; Weight 1 lb.
\par }\pard\plain \s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel4\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par DORJES
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
A dorje is a slender crystal that contains a single power. Each dorje has 50 charges when created, and each charge expended allows one use of that power. A dorje that runs out of charges is just a simple crystal.
\par }{\b Physical Description:}{ A typical dorje is an elongated crystal of one color (or colorless), between 8 inches and 10 inches long and about 1/2 inch thick, which can weigh up to 1/4 poun
d. Occasionally, a dorje is decorated with carvings or inscribed runes along a face of the crystal. A typical dorje has AC 7, 7 hit points, a hardness of 8, and a break DC of 18.
\par }{\b Activation:}{ Dorjes use the power trigger activation method, so manifesting a 
power from a dorje is usually a standard action that does not provoke attacks of opportunity. (If the power being manifested has a manifesting time longer than 1 standard action, however, it takes that long to manifest the power from a dorje.) The user mu
st have the power on his class list, even if he knows the command thought. Additionally, to activate a dorje, a character must hold it in hand and point it in the general direction of the target or area to be affected.
\par Dorjes are normally created at the minimum manifester level required to manifest the power, and powers that can be augmented are not augmented when stored in a dorje. A dorje\rquote 
s wielder cannot augment the power contained within the dorje. However, dorjes can be created at a higher manifester le
vel than required to manifest the power. In this case, the dorje that holds an augmentable power is augmented, to the limit of the manifester level and the power\rquote 
s augmentation maximums, if any. The manifester level of a dorje cannot be more than five higher than the minimum manifester level to use the power it contains.
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6139 \cellx6031\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 
{\b Table: Dorjes\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6139 \cellx6031\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1092 \cellx984\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1132 \cellx2116\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth942 \cellx3058\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1442 \cellx4500\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1531 \cellx6031\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b Minor
\cell Medium\cell Major\cell Power Level}{\b\super 1}{\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b Market Price}{\b\super 2}{\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1092 \cellx984\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1132 \cellx2116\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth942 \cellx3058\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1442 
\cellx4500\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1531 \cellx6031\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {01\endash 50\cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell 1st\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {750 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1092 \cellx984\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1132 \cellx2116\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth942 \cellx3058\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1442 \cellx4500
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1531 \cellx6031\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {51\endash 95\cell 01\endash 05\cell \emdash \cell 2nd\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {4,500 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1092 \cellx984\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1132 \cellx2116\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth942 \cellx3058\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1442 \cellx4500
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1531 \cellx6031\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {96\endash 100\cell 06\endash 65\cell \emdash \cell 3rd\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {11,250 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1092 \cellx984\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1132 \cellx2116\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth942 \cellx3058\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1442 \cellx4500
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1531 \cellx6031\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell 66\endash 95\cell 01\endash 05\cell 4th\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {21,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1092 \cellx984\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1132 \cellx2116\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth942 \cellx3058\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1442 \cellx4500
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1531 \cellx6031\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell 96\endash 100\cell 06\endash 50\cell 5th\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {33,750 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1092 \cellx984\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1132 \cellx2116\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth942 \cellx3058\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1442 \cellx4500
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1531 \cellx6031\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell \emdash \cell 51\endash 70\cell 6th\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {49,500 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1092 \cellx984\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1132 \cellx2116\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth942 \cellx3058\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1442 \cellx4500
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1531 \cellx6031\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell \emdash \cell 71\endash 85\cell 7th\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {68,250 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1092 \cellx984\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1132 \cellx2116\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth942 \cellx3058\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1442 \cellx4500
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1531 \cellx6031\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell \emdash \cell 86\endash 95\cell 8th\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {90,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1092 \cellx984\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1132 \cellx2116\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth942 \cellx3058\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1442 \cellx4500
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1531 \cellx6031\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell \emdash \cell 95\endash 100\cell 9th\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {114,750 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1092 \cellx984\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1132 \cellx2116\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth942 \cellx3058\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1442 \cellx4500
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1531 \cellx6031\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6139 \cellx6031\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1 Some dorjes have higher manifester levels than the minimum power level, which give them commensurately higher costs.
\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6139 \cellx6031\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6139 \cellx6031\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {2 Any dorje that stores a power with an experience point cost also has an XP cost in addition to that noted here.}{\i \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6139 \cellx6031\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24 
\par POWER STONES
\par }{A power stone stores a power (or collection of powers). A stored power can be used only once, \'93flushing\'94 the stone. Using a power stone is basically like manifesting a power.
\par }{\b Physical Description:}{ A power stone is a thumb-sized chunk of crystal that possesses a barely detectable interior glow if it holds a low-level power. A stone imprinted with more than one power or a higher-level power glows more br
ightly, but never enough to provide illumination in its own right. A typical power stone has AC 7, 5 hit points, a hardness of 8, and a break DC of 20.
\par }{\b Activation:}{ To activate a power stone, a manifester must mentally address it, as described below. Once the power is known, the power stone is treated as a power completion item, except as noted below.
\par }{\i Addressing the Stone: }{A power stone must be \'93addressed\'94 before a character can use it or know exactly what power it contains. Doing this requires a successful 
Psicraft check (DC 15 + power level). Once a particular power stone has been addressed, it is not necessary to do so again. Addressing a power stone in advance lets a character proceed directly to the next step when the time comes to use it.
\par Using a stone\rquote s stored power after addressing the stone requires holding the stone and willing the power\rquote 
s manifestation, as if manifesting a power normally (a standard action). Activating a power stone is subject to disruption just as manifesting a power normally would be.
\par Additionally, the user must meet the following requirements.
\par \bullet  The user must have the power on his or her class list.
\par \bullet  The user must have the requisite key ability score.
\par If the user meets these requirements and has a manifester level at least equal to the power\rquote 
s manifester level, she can automatically manifest the stored power without a check. If she meets both requirements but her own level is lower than the power stone\rquote s manifester level, she has to make a manifester level check (1d20 + user\rquote 
s level), against a DC equal to the power stone\rquote 
s manifester level +1, to manifest the power successfully. On a failure, the user must succeed on a DC 5 Wisdom check to avoid brainburn (see below). A natural roll of 1 on this check is always a failure.
\par }{\i Determine Effect: }{A power successfully manifested from a power stone works exactly as if manifested normally. Assume the power stone\rquote 
s manifester level is always the minimum level required to manifest the power for the character who imprinted the stone, unless the creator specifically desires otherwise.
\par A power stone\rquote s glow fades when its stored power is flushed.
\par }{\i Brainburn: }{When something goes awry, the user of a power stone improperly manifests the stored power. The resultant psionic surge persists for 1d4 rounds,
 unless the power stone is flung farther than 100 feet away or is destroyed. This surge deals 1d6 points of damage per power stored per round and arcs across multiple targets, similar to }{\i energy current}{, except the damage type isn\rquote 
t specified. The user is the primary target, and one nearby ally is the secondary target (chosen at random).
\par The manifester level for a standard power stone is the minimum manifester level needed to manifest the power (unless otherwise specified).
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2347\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b 
Table: Power Stone Types\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2347\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx766\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2347\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b d%\cell Type\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx766\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2347\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {01\endash 70\cell Psion/wilder\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx766\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2347\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx766\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2347\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {71\endash 100\cell Psychic warrior\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx766\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2347\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3753\pard\plain 
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Table: Powers Imprinted in a Power Stone\cell }\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3753\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1799\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3753\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b Power Stone Type\cell 
}\pard\plain \s9\qr \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel8\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Number of Powers\cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx1799\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3753\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Minor\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1d3 powers\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1799\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3753\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Medium\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1d4 powers
\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1799\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3753\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1799\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3753\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Major
\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1d6 powers\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1799\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3753\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\b 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6838 \cellx6730\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 
{\b Table: Power Stone Levels\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6838 \cellx6730\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1199 \cellx1318\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1039 \cellx2553\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3523\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5041\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6730\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b Minor\cell Medium\cell Major\cell 
Power Level\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b Market Price}{\b\super 1}{\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1199 \cellx1318\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1039 \cellx2553\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3523\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5041\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6730\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {01\endash 50\cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell 1st\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {25 gp\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1199 \cellx1318\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1039 \cellx2553\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3523\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5041\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6730\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {51\endash 95\cell 01\endash 05\cell 
\emdash \cell 2nd\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {150 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1199 \cellx1318\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1039 \cellx2553\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3523\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5041\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6730\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {96\endash 100\cell 06\endash 65\cell \emdash \cell 3rd\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {375 gp\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1199 \cellx1318\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1039 \cellx2553\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3523\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5041\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6730\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell 66\endash 95\cell 01
\endash 05\cell 4th\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {700 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1199 \cellx1318\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1039 \cellx2553\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3523\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5041\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6730\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell 96\endash 100\cell 06\endash 50\cell 5th\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1,125 gp\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1199 \cellx1318\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1039 \cellx2553\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3523\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5041\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6730\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell \emdash \cell 51\endash 
70\cell 6th\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1,650 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1199 \cellx1318\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1039 \cellx2553\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3523\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5041\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6730\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell \emdash \cell 71\endash 85\cell 7th}{\b\super 2}{\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {2,275 gp\cell 
}\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1199 \cellx1318\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1039 \cellx2553\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3523\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5041\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6730\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell \emdash \cell 86\endash 
95\cell 8th}{\b\super 2}{\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {3,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1199 \cellx1318\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1039 \cellx2553\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3523\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5041\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6730\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell \emdash \cell 95\endash 100\cell 9th}{\b\super 2}{\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {3,825 gp\cell 
}\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1199 \cellx1318\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1039 \cellx2553\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3523\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5041\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6730\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6838 \cellx6730\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1 Any power stone that has an i
mprinted power with an experience point cost also has an XP cost in addition to that noted here.}{\i \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6838 \cellx6730\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6838 \cellx6730\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {
2 Reroll if a level of 7th or higher is indicated for a psychic warrior power stone. The maximum level for a psychic warrior power stone is 6th.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6838 \cellx6730\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\fs24 
\par PSICROWNS
\par }{A
 psicrown is a special headband that stores several powers. Unlike dorjes, which can contain a wide variety of powers, each psicrown is of a certain kind and holds specific powers. Unless otherwise stated, a psicrown has power points equal to 50 x its man
ifester level when created. These power points can be spent only on the powers that are contained in the psicrown.
\par }{\b Physical Description:}{ A typical psicrown is large enough to fit on the head of a Medium creature. Some psicrowns are actually crownlike and he
avily adorned, while others are simple headbands with crystal centerpieces. All psicrowns weigh less than 1 pound. Most psicrowns are metallic, but one could potentially be composed of any material. Metallic psicrowns have AC 10, 10 hit points, hardness 8
,
 and a break DC of 28. Psicrowns made of psionically reinforced silk have AC 7, 10 hit points, hardness 2, and a break DC of 24. Psicrowns can be made from other, more exotic materials, but all have at least the strength and durability of psicrowns made o
f psionically reinforced silk.
\par }{\b Activation:}{ Psicrowns use the power trigger activation method, so manifesting a power from a psicrown is usually a standard action that does not provoke attacks of opportunity. (If the power being manifested, however, has a lo
nger manifesting time than 1 standard action, it takes that long to manifest the power from a psicrown.) When activating a psicrown, the user spends power points contained in the psicrown on any one of the psicrown\rquote 
s powers. Powers activated from a psicrown can be augmented with additional power points from the psicrown itself, so long as the total number of power points spent does not exceed the user\rquote s manifester level. The user can\rquote 
t manifest a power from a psicrown using his own power points.
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4802\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b 
Table: Psicrowns\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4802\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx831\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3447\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4802\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b Medium\cell Major\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b Psicrown\cell }\pard\plain 
\s9\qr \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel8\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Market Price\cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx831\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3447\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4802\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {01\endash 20\cell 01\endash 09\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Dominator\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {
20,250 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx831\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3447\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4802\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {21\endash 51\cell 10\endash 20\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Evader\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {28,500 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx831\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3447\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4802\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {52\endash 64\cell 21\endash 31
\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Cautious warrior\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {32,063 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx831\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3447\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4802\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {65\endash 79\cell 32\endash 41\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Beast\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {33,750 gp\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx831\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3447\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4802\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {80\endash 89\cell 42\endash 58\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Great dominator\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {45,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx831\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3447\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4802\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {90\endash 97\cell 59\endash 68
\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Astral legion\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {47,250 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx831\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3447\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4802\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {98\endash 100\cell 69\endash 78\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Discerning watcher\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {51,469 gp\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx831\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3447\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4802\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell 79\endash 89\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Fiery ruin\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {67,500 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx831\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3447\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4802\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell 90\endash 97
\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Traveler\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {80,156 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx831\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3447\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4802\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx831\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3447\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4802\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell 98\endash 100\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i 
Temporal juggler\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {95,625 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx831\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx3447\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4802\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psicrown Descriptions
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psicrowns have immense utility because they pack so many capabilities into one item and because they use the wearer\rquote 
s ability score and relevant feats to set the DC for saves against their powers.
\par Unlike with other sorts of psionic items, the wearer can use his manifester level when activating the power of a psicrown if it\rquote s higher than the manifester level of the psicrown. 
\par The minimum manifester level of a psicrown is 8th. The manifester level of a psicrown cannot be more than five levels higher than the minimum manifester level for the highest-level power in the psicrown. Standard psicrowns are described below.
\par }{\b Astral Legion:}{ This psicrown has 900 power points. It is made from white silk interwoven with crystalline strands of thread. It allows use of the following power.
\par \bullet  }{\i Astral construct 
\par }{Strong metacreativity; ML 18th; Craft Psicrown, }{\i astral construct; }{Price 47,250 gp.
\par }{\b Beast:}{ This psicrown has 450 power points. It is made from a prickly collection of bear claws and snake fangs. It allows use of the following powers.
\par \bullet  }{\i Claw of energy
\par }{\bullet  }{\i Duodimensional claw
\par }{\bullet  }{\i Prevenom
\par }{\bullet  }{\i Psionic lion\rquote s charge
\par }{\bullet  }{\i Truevenom
\par }{Moderate psychometabolism; ML 9th; Craft Psicrown, }{\i claw of energy, duodimensional claw, prevenom, psionic lion\rquote s charge, truevenom; }{Price 33,750 gp.
\par }{\b Cautious Warrior:}{ This psicrown has 450 power points. It is made from a shining iron alloy, similar to the material of a metallic shield. It allows use of the following powers.
\par \bullet  }{\i Adapt body
\par }{\bullet  }{\i Body adjustment
\par }{\bullet  }{\i Precognition, defensive
\par }{\bullet  }{\i Inertial barrier
\par }{Moderate psychometabolism; ML 9th; Craft Psicrown, }{\i adapt body, body adjustment, defensive precognition, inertial barrier; }{Price 32,063 gp.
\par }{\b Discerning Watcher:}{ This psicrown has 450 power points. It is made from pure transparent crystal. It allows use of the following powers.
\par \bullet  }{\i Aura sight
\par }{\bullet  C}{\i lairtangent hand
\par }{\bullet  }{\i Clairvoyant sense
\par }{\bullet  }{\i Darkvision, psionic
\par }{\bullet  }{\i Remote viewing
\par }{\bullet  }{\i True seeing, psionic
\par }{Moderate clairsentience; ML 9th; Craft Psicrown, }{\i aura sight, clairtangent hand, clairvoyant sense, psionic darkvision, psionic true seeing, remote viewing; }{Price 51,469 gp.
\par }{\b Dominator: }{This psicrown has 450 power points. It is made from gray iron and is shaped into an intricately fluted crown. It allows use of the following powers.
\par \bullet  }{\i Charm, psionic
\par }{\bullet  }{\i Dominate, psionic
\par }{\bullet  }{\i Suggestion, psionic
\par }{Moderate telepathy; ML 9th; Craft Psicrown, }{\i psionic charm, psionic dominate, psionic suggestion; }{Price 20,250 gp.
\par }{\b Evader:}{ This psicrown has 400 power points. It is made from silk, usually dyed emerald green, with an emerald crystal affixed to the material. It allows use of the following powers.
\par \bullet  }{\i Catfall
\par }{\bullet  }{\i Hustle
\par }{\bullet  }{\i Fly, psionic
\par }{\bullet  }{\i Freedom of movement, psionic
\par }{\bullet  }{\i Wall walker
\par }{Moderate psychoportation; ML 8th; Craft Psicrown, }{\i catfall, hustle, psionic fly, psionic freedom of movement, wall walker; }{Price 28,500 gp.
\par }{\b Fiery Ruin:}{ This psicrown has 750 power points. It is made from reddish iron and is shaped into a twisted circlet studded with reddish crystals. It allows use of the following powers.
\par \bullet  }{\i Energy ball
\par }{\bullet  }{\i Energy cone
\par }{\bullet  }{\i Energy missile
\par }{\bullet  }{\i Energy stun
\par }{\bullet  }{\i Fiery discorporation
\par }{Strong psychokinesis; ML 15th; Craft Psicrown, }{\i energy ball, energy cone, energy missile, energy stun, fiery discorporation;  }{Price 67,500 gp.
\par }{\b Great Dominator:}{ This psicrown has 750 power points. It is made from black iron without further ornamentation. It allows use of the following powers.
\par \bullet  }{\i Charm, psionic
\par }{\bullet  }{\i Suggestion, psionic
\par }{\bullet  }{\i Dominate, psionic
\par }{Strong telepathy; ML 15th; Craft Psicrown, }{\i psionic charm, psionic dominate, psionic suggestion; }{Price 45,000 gp.
\par }{\b Temporal Juggler:}{ This psicrown has 850 power points. It is made from silk, usually dyed in several colors, with a clear crystal affixed to the material. It allows use of the following powers.
\par \bullet  }{\i Temporal acceleration
\par }{\bullet  }{\i Time hop
\par }{\bullet  }{\i Timeless body
\par }{Strong psychoportation; ML 17th; Craft Psicrown, }{\i temporal acceleration, time hop, timeless body; }{Price 95,625 gp. 
\par }{\b Traveler: }{This psicrown has 750 power points. It is made from silk, usually dyed emerald green, with an emerald crystal affixed to the material. It allows use of the following powers.
\par \bullet  }{\i Astral traveler
\par }{\bullet  }{\i Dimension door, psionic
\par }{\bullet  }{\i Teleport, greater psionic
\par }{\bullet  }{\i Teleport, psionic
\par }{Strong psychoportation; ML 15th; Craft Psicrown, }{\i astral traveler, psionic dimension door, psionic greater teleport, psionic teleport; }{Price 80,156 gp.
\par }{\fs24 
\par PSIONIC TATTOOS
\par }{Psionic tattoos are designs scribed on the skin that manifest powers on their wearers. The wearer doesn\rquote t get to make any decisions about the tattoo\rquote s effect\emdash the manifester who scribed it has already done so.
\par Psionic tattoos can vary in size, but a creature can wear only a total of twenty tattoos at one time\emdash attempting to add one more than this maxim
um causes all previously scribed tattoos to simultaneously activate. A psionic tattoo fades away after use.
\par }{\b Physical Description:}{ A typical psionic tattoo is a colorful pattern of tiny, interlacing lines within a larger design. This design can be as simple as a circle or a star, or as complex as an artist wishes to make it. Once it is scribed, a tattoo
\rquote s design does not change. A psionic tattoo usually covers an area of skin no more than 5 inches in diameter (larger ones could be designed, but would have no added effect).
\par }{\b Scribing and Transferring Tattoos:}{ The manifester level of a psionic tattoo is the minimum level required to manifest the scribed power. A psionic tattoo can contain only powers of 3rd level or lower.
\par A psionic tattoo inscribed on a wearer 
is potentially more mobile than a mundane tattoo. As a standard action, the wearer can will the tattoo to move to a different part of his body or onto the skin of any willing (or unconscious) living creature he touches. If the wearer of a psionic tattoo i
s rendered unconscious or is slain, another sentient creature can touch the tattoo while willing it to leave the previous wearer and apply itself to the new creature as a standard action. Psionic tattoos cannot overlay one another.
\par }{\b Identifying Psionic Tattoos: }{
In addition to the standard methods of identification, the wearer of a tattoo can concentrate on it and attempt to gain some sense of how it would feel if activated. A successful DC 13 Intelligence check provides a hint to the tattoo\rquote s effect. 

\par }{\b Activation: }{A psionic tattoo produces its effect when touched by its wearer and willed to do so. This activity, called \'93tapping\'94 the tattoo, is a standard action that provokes attacks of opportunity. A psionic tattoo fades away after use.

\par The following rules govern the use of psionic tattoos.
\par \bullet  A creature must have an appropriate physical surface on which to scribe the pattern (thus, incorporeal creatures or creatures with impermanent flesh, such as fire elementals, cannot use psionic tattoos).
\par \bullet  Tapping a psionic
 tattoo provokes attacks of opportunity. A successful attack (including grappling attacks) against the wearer forces a Concentration check. A wearer who fails this check cannot concentrate effectively on the tattoo to use it. The tattoo remains untapped, 
and the wearer can make another attempt.
\par \bullet  A character can trigger the effects of another\rquote s psionic tattoo if the other wearer is unconscious. It is a full-round action to find, touch, and concentrate on an unconscious creature\rquote s tattoo in order to tap it. 
\par The manifester level for a standard psionic tattoo is the minimum manifester level needed to manifest the power (unless otherwise specified).
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5095\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b 
Table: Psionic Tattoos}{\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5095\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2463\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3740\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5095\pard\plain \s1\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0 
\b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Minor\cell Medium\cell Major\cell Power Level\cell }\pard \s1\qr \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0 {Market Price\cell }\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx2463\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3740\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5095\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {01\endash 
47\cell 01\endash 08\cell \emdash \cell 1st\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {50 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2463\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3740\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5095
\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {47\endash 100\cell 09\endash 75\cell 01\endash 50\cell 2nd\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {300 gp\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2463\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3740\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5095\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx2463\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3740\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5095\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\emdash \cell 76\endash 100\cell 51\endash 100\cell 3rd\cell 
}\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {750 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1647\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx2463\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3740\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5095\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24 
\par UNIVERSAL ITEMS
\par }{This is a catchall category for any psionic item that doesn\rquote t fall into the other groups. Anyone can use a universal item (unless specified otherwise in the description).
\par }{\b Physical Description:}{ Varies.
\par }{\b Activation: }{Usually command thought, but details vary from item to item.
\par }{\b 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4790\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b 
Table: Minor Universal Items\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4790\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3435\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4790\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b d%\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b Item\cell }\pard\plain \s9\qr \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel8\rin0\lin0 
\b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Market Price\cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx3435\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4790\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {01\endash 04\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Shard }{
(+1, any one skill)\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {10 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3435\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4790\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {05\endash 07\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Shard }{(+2, any one skill)\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {40 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3435\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4790\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {08\endash 10\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Crawling tattoo (any 1st level)\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {50 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3435\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4790\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {11\endash 14\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Crawling tattoo of concussion\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {50 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3435\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4790\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {15\endash 18\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Shard }{(+3, any one skill)\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {90 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3435\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4790\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {19\endash 21\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Shard }{(+4, any one skill)\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {160 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3435\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4790\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {22\endash 24\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Shard }{(+5, any one skill)\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {250 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3435\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4790\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {25\endash 28\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Crawling tattoo (any 2nd level)\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {300 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3435\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4790\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {29\endash 31\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Pearl, brain lock\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {300 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3435\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4790\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {32\endash 35\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Shard }{(+6, any one skill)\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {360 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3435\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4790\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {36\endash 38\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Shard }{(+7, any one skill)\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {490 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3435\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4790\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {39\endash 41\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Boots of stomping\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {600 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3435\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4790\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {42\endash 44\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Shard }{(+8, any one skill)\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {640 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3435\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4790\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {45\endash 47\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Crawling tattoo (any 3rd level)\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {750 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3435\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4790\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {48\endash 50\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Crawling tattoo of energy bolt\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {750 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3435\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4790\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {51\endash 53\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Pearl, breath crisis\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {750 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3435\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4790\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {54\endash 56\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Shard }{(+9, any one skill)\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {810 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3435\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4790\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {57\endash 59\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Boots of landing }{\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3435\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4790\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {60\endash 63\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Psionic restraints, lesser\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3435\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4790\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {64\endash 67\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Shard }{(+10, any one skill)\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3435\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4790\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {68\endash 71\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Pearl, personality parasite\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1,400 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3435\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4790\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {72\endash 75\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Crystal mask of knowledge\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {2,500 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3435\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4790\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {76\endash 79\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Crystal mask of languages\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {2,500 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3435\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4790\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {80\endash 85\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Eyes of expanded vision\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {3,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3435\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4790\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {86\endash 89\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Gloves of object reading\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {3,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3435\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4790\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {90\endash 92\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Mirror of suggestion\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {3,600 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3435\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4790\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {93\endash 94\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Psionic restraints, average\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {6,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3435\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4790\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {95\endash 97\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Torc of free will\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {6,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3435\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4790\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3435\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4790\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {98\endash 100\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Boots of skating\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {7,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3435\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4790\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b 
Table: Medium Universal Items\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b d%\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b Item\cell }\pard\plain \s9\qr \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel8\rin0\lin0 
\b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Market Price\cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx3769\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {01\endash 04\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i 
Psionatrix of clairsentience\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {8,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {05\endash 08\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Psionatrix of metacreativity\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {8,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {09\endash 12\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Psionatrix of psychokinesis\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {8,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {13\endash 16\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Psionatrix of psychometabolism\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {8,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {17\endash 20\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Psionatrix of psychoportation\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {8,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {21\endash 25\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Psionatrix of telepathy\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {8,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {26\endash 27\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Third eye penetrate\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {8,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {28\endash 29\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Mirror of time hop\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {9,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {30\endash 31\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Crystal mask of detection\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {10,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {32\endash 33\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Crystal mask of discernment\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {10,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {34\endash 35\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Crystal mask of dread\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {10,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {36\endash 38\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Crystal mask of psionic craft\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {10,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {39\endash 41\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Ring of self-sufficiency\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {10,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {42\endash 43\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Skin of nimbleness\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {10,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {44\endash 45\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Third eye aware\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {10,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {46\endash 47\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Third eye concentrate\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {10,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {48\endash 49\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Third eye gather\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {10,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {50\endash 52\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Eyes of power leech\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {10,080 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {53\endash 55\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Third eye powerthieve\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {10,080 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {56\endash 58\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Third eye view\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {10,180 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {59\endash 61\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Crystal mask of mindarmor\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {10,667 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {62\endash 63\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Psionic restraints, greater\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {12,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {64\endash 65\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Torc of leech freedom\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {12,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {66\endash 68\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Gloves of titan\rquote s grip\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {14,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {69\endash 70\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Skin of the claw\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {16,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {71\endash 72\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Amulet of catapsi\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {16,200 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {73\endash 74\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Skin of the chameleon\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {18,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {75\endash 76\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Pearl, mind seed\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {18,500 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {77\endash 78\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Mirror of mind switch\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {19,800 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {79\endash 80\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Eyes of power leech, vampiric\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {20,160 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {81\endash 82\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Crystal mask of insightful detection\cell 
}\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {20,250 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {83\endash 84\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Crystal anchor, body\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {24,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {85\endash 86\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Crystal anchor, comprehension\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {24,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {87\endash 88\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Crystal anchor, creation\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {24,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {89\endash 90\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Crystal anchor, energy\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {24,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {91\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Crystal anchor, ghost\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {24,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {92\endash 93\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Crystal anchor, mind\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {24,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {94\endash 95\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Crystal anchor, travel\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {24,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {96\endash 97\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Psionic restraints, damping\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {24,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {98\endash 100\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Third eye sense\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {24,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3769\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5124\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4762\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b 
Table: Major Universal Items\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4762\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3407\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4762\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b d%\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b Item\cell }\pard\plain \s9\qr \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel8\rin0\lin0 
\b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Market Price\cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx3407\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4762\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {01\endash 08\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Skin of the defender
\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {32,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3407\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4762\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {09\endash 16\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Torc of power preservation\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {36,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3407\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4762\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {17\endash 24\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Boots of temporal acceleration\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {43,200 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3407\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4762\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {25\endash 32\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Third eye repudiate\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {43,200 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3407\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4762\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {33\endash 40\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Skin of fiery response\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {60,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3407\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4762\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {41\endash 49\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Skin of the troll\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {61,200 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3407\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4762\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {50\endash 57\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Skin of the hero\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {77,500 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3407\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4762\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {58\endash 63\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Skin of the spider\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {79,080 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3407\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4762\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {64\endash 72\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Skin of proteus\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {84,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3407\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4762\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {73\endash 80\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Third eye expose\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {112,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3407\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4762\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {81\endash 87\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Third eye conceal\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {120,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3407\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4762\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {88\endash 92\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Third eye dominate\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {120,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3407\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4762\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {93\endash 97\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Skin of iron\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {129,600 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3407\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4762\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3407\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4762\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {98\endash 100\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Skin of the psion\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {151,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3407\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4762\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Universal Item Descriptions
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Universal items can be configured to do just about anything. 
\par Standard universal items are described below.
\par }{\b Amulet of Catapsi:}{ This copper amulet aids the wearer against other psionic characters. Once per day, the wearer can mentally command the }{\i catapsi }{power, which blankets a 30- f
oot-radius area surrounding the wearer in telepathic noise for 9 rounds. Each time other psionic characters within this range attempt to manifest a power, they must succeed on a DC 17 Will save or pay 4 more points than they otherwise would for each power
 manifestation. The limit on the number of power points a subject can spend on a power remains in effect, so the subject may not be able to manifest his or her highest-level powers.
\par Moderate telepathy; ML 9th; Craft Universal Item, }{\i catapsi; }{Price 16,200 gp.
\par }{\b Boots of Landing:}{
 These boots allow the wearer to recover instantly from a fall and can absorb some damage from falling once per day. The wearer lands on her feet no matter how far she falls, and takes 2 fewer dice of damage from the fall than normal.
\par Faint psychoportation; ML 2nd; Craft Universal Item, }{\i catfall; }{Price 1,000 gp; Weight 1 lb.
\par }{\b Boots of Skating:}{ These boots allow the wearer to slide along the ground at will as if using the }{\i skate }{power.
\par Faint psychoportation; ML 1st; Craft Universal Item, }{\i skate; }{Price 7,000 gp; Weight 1 lb.
\par }{\b Boots of Stomping: }{These boots allow the wearer to use }{\i stomp }{as the power three times per day (Reflex save DC 13) when the wearer stomps her feet. 
\par Faint psychokinesis; ML 3rd; Craft Universal Item, }{\i stomp; }{Price 600 gp; Weight 1 lb.
\par }{\b Boots of Temporal Acceleration:}{ These boots allow the wearer to speed up his own time frame for 2 rounds as if using the power }{\i temporal acceleration}{. The wearer can use this power once per day.
\par Strong psychoportation; ML 15th; Craft Universal Item, }{\i temporal acceleration; }{Price 43,200 gp; Weight 1 lb.
\par }{\b Crawling Tattoos:}{ Crawling tattoos resemble standard psionic tattoos, but their effects are often harmful rather than beneficial. Like a psionic tattoo, a crawling tattoo can be scribed only with a powe
r of no higher than 3rd level that targets one or more creatures. Exceptions are the }{\i body adjustment }{
power, which can be scribed even though it affects only the manifester, and telepathy (compulsion) powers, which cannot be scribed at all. Powers that norm
ally have an area affect only one target if scribed in a crawling tattoo. Powers with an experience point requirement cannot be scribed into a crawling tattoo. Otherwise, crawling tattoos are treated as psionic tattoos until they are activated by the wear
er.
\par The wearer of a crawling tattoo can tap the tattoo as a standard action that provokes attacks of opportunity, mentally specifying a target (to which the wearer must have line of sight). Instead of manifesting its stored power, the tattoo animates, drops
 to the ground, and scuttles toward the target. The original wearer need no longer concentrate on the tattoo once animated.
\par The animated tattoo moves toward its designated target in the same round when it is activated. Treat it as a Fine construct that has AC 18, 10 hit points, a hardness of 5, speed 30 feet, and a bonus on attack rolls equal to the wearer\rquote 
s manifester level + his key ability modifier. Crawling tattoos, unlike true constructs, are subject to illusions, darkness, fog, and similar effects. Sh
ould the target be killed, teleport away, or otherwise absent itself before the animated tattoo reaches it, the wearer can reclaim the tattoo. If it is destroyed, a crawling tattoo shatters and evaporates.
\par A crawling tattoo must enter the target\rquote s square to attack and thus provokes attacks of opportunity as it passes through the target\rquote 
s threatened area. The tattoo makes one touch attack  per round thereafter until it strikes its target or is destroyed. On a successful attack, the power scribed in the crawl
ing tattoo affects the target if the target fails the appropriate saving throw; however, powers that normally allow a Reflex saving throw automatically affect the touched target. Crawling tattoos can ferry beneficial powers as well as harmful ones, and a 
target can allow the tattoo\rquote s touch attack to succeed if he or she desires.
\par Two examples of crawling tattoos are described below; many more types are possible.
\par }{\i Market Price: }{The cost of a crawling tattoo depends on the level of the power scribed in it.
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1169\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2524
\pard\plain \s1\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Power Level\cell }\pard \s1\qr \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0 {Market Price\cell 
}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1169\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2524\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1169\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2524\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1st\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {50 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1169\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2524\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {2nd\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {300 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1169\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2524\row }\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1169\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2524\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {3rd\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {750 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1169\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2524\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\i Crawling Tattoo of Concussion}{: This crawling tattoo delivers a concussion effect, dealing 1d6 points of damage to a creature hit by its touch attack.
\par Faint psychokinesis; ML 1st; Craft Universal Item, }{\i concussion blast; }{Price 50 gp.
\par }{\i Crawling Tattoo of Energy Bolt}{: Each of these tattoos is keyed to one energy type: cold, electricity, fire, or sonic. This crawling tattoo delivers the }{\i energy bolt }{power, dealing 5d6 points of damage of its energy type.
\par Faint psychokinesis; ML 5th; Craft Universal Item, }{\i energy bolt; }{Price 750 gp.
\par }{\b Crystal Anchor: }{A }{\i crystal anchor }{is a shaft of transparent crystal 4 to 5 feet in length, with a sharpened, spearlike head on one end. It ensnares the minds of those within range wh
o manifest powers of a specified psionic discipline. The triggering discipline is specified at the time of creation.
\par A }{\i crystal anchor }{is activated by plunging the sharp head into the ground, leaving the shaft freestanding. It projects an invisible, 30-foot
-radius field. If a power from the speci- fied discipline is manifested within this range, the manifester must succeed on a Will save (DC 15 + power level) or become subject to an effect similar to }{\i brain lock}{
, except that the effect is permanent until dispelled or dismissed by the individual who initially drove the }{\i crystal anchor }{into the earth. Any anchor can be pulled out of the ground and reused at a later time.
\par When a }{\i crystal anchor }{successfully ensnares a target, a slender filament of insubstantial ectoplasm connects the victim to the shaft, even one outside the original area of the field.
\par A }{\i crystal anchor }{can attempt to ensnare a victim only five times per day. Previously caught targets can remain caught day after day and do not count against this daily limit on attempts.
\par An anchor\rquote s owner can designate certain creatures to be unaffected by the anchor; such creatures need not make a saving throw and do not count against the daily limit on attempts. One }{\i crystal anchor }{can ensnare multiple targets simulta
neously, and multiple }{\i crystal anchors }{can share overlapping fields.
\par Anchors that activate when a specific power is manifested in range are also possible, but are rarer.
\par A }{\i crystal anchor }{has AC 7, 15 hit points, a hardness of 8, and a break DC of 20.
\par }{\i Body Crystal Anchor: }{Those who manifest psychometabolism powers are affected as described above.
\par Faint psychometabolism; ML 5th; Craft Universal Item, }{\i brain lock, psionic contingency}{, any psychometabolism power; Price 24,000 gp; Weight 3 lb.
\par }{\i Comprehension Crystal Anchor: }{Those who manifest clairsentience powers are affected as described above.
\par Faint clairsentience; ML 5th; Craft Universal Item, }{\i brain lock, psionic contingency}{, any clairsentience power; Price 24,000 gp; Weight 3 lb.
\par }{\i Creation Crystal Anchor: }{Those who manifest metacreativity powers are affected as described above.
\par Faint metacreativity; ML 5th; Craft Universal Item, }{\i brain lock, psionic contingency}{, any metacreativity power; Price 24,000 gp; Weight 3 lb.
\par }{\i Energy Crystal Anchor: }{Those who manifest psychokinesis powers are affected as described above.
\par Faint psychokinesis; ML 5th; Craft Universal Item, }{\i brain lock, psionic contingency}{, any psychokinesis power; Price 24,000 gp; Weight 3 lb.
\par }{\i Ghost Crystal Anchor: }{Those who manifest }{\i remote viewing }{are affected as described above.
\par Faint clairsentience; ML 5th; Craft Universal Item, }{\i brain lock, psionic contingency}{, }{\i remote viewing; }{Price 24,000 gp; Weight 3 lb.
\par }{\i Mind Crystal Anchor: }{Those who manifest telepathy powers are affected as described above.
\par Faint telepathy; ML 5th; Craft Universal Item, }{\i brain lock, psionic contingency}{, any telepathy power; Price 24,000 gp; Weight 3 lb.
\par }{\i Travel Crystal Anchor: }{Those who manifest psychoportation powers are affected as described above.
\par Faint psychoportation; ML 5th; Craft Universal Item, }{\i brain lock, psionic contingency}{, any psychoportation power; Price 24,000 gp; Weight 3 lb.
\par }{\b Crystal Masks:}{ Each of the various types of crystal masks fits over the face of any Medium or Small humanoid, with slits for eyes and nostrils. The mask is transparent, although it distorts the wearer\rquote 
s features. Leather straps attached to small holes on the sides of a mask enable the owner to affix the mask to his face.
\par Crystal masks confer special abilities or improved skills on their wearers.
\par A crystal mask is treated as eyewear or goggles for the purpose of determining which items can be worn on the body.
\par }{\i Crystal Mask of Detection: }{The wearer of a }{\i crystal mask of detection }{can make Search checks with a +10 competence bonus.
\par Moderate clairsentience; ML 7th; Craft Universal Item, creator must have 10 ranks in Search; Price 10,000 gp; Weight 1/2 lb.
\par }{\i Crystal Mask of Discernment: }{The wearer of a }{\i crystal mask of discernment }{can make Sense Motive checks with a +10 insight bonus.
\par Moderate clairsentience; ML 7th; Craft Universal Item, creator must have 10 ranks in Sense Motive; Price 10,000 gp; Weight 1/2 lb.
\par }{\i Crystal Mask of Dread: }{The wearer of a }{\i crystal mask of dread }{can attempt to frighten other beings to her will. The wearer makes all Intimidate checks with a +10 competence bonus. 
\par Moderate clairsentience; ML 7th; Craft Universal Item, creator must have 10 ranks in Intimidate; Price 10,000 gp; Weight 1/2 lb.
\par }{\i Crystal Mask of Insightful Detection: }{The wearer of a }{\i crystal mask of insightful detection }{can make Search checks and Spot checks checks with a +9 insight bonus.
\par Moderate clairsentience; ML 7th; Craft Universal Item, creator must have 9 ranks in both Search and Spot; Price 20,250 gp; Weight 1/2 lb.
\par }{\i Crystal Mask of Knowledge: }{Each of the various }{\i crystal masks of knowledge }{grants the wearer a +5 competence bonus on a specific type of Knowledge check. 
\par Faint clairsentience; ML 3rd; Craft Universal Item, creator must have 5 ranks in the Knowledge skill of the appropriate type; Price 2,500 gp; Weight 1/2 lb.
\par }{\i Crystal Mask of Languages: }{Each of the various }{\i crystal masks of language }{grants the wearer the ability to speak and write five different languages. 
\par Faint clairsentience; ML 3rd; Craft Universal Item, creator must have the Speak Language skill for each of five languages; Price 2,500 gp; Weight 1/2 lb.
\par }{\i Crystal Mask of Mindarmor: }{A }{\i crystal mask of mindarmor }{grants the wearer a +4 insight bonus on all Will saving throws.
\par Faint telepathy; ML 5th; Craft Universal Item, }{\i conceal thoughts; }{Price 10,667 gp; Weight 1/2 lb.
\par }{\i Crystal Mask of Psionic Craft: }{The wearer of a }{\i crystal mask of psionic craft }{makes all Psicraft checks with a +10 competence bonus.
\par Moderate clairsentience; ML 7th; Craft Universal Item, creator must have 10 ranks in Psicraft; Price 10,000 gp; Weight 1/2 lb.
\par }{\b Eyes of Expanded Vision:}{ These crystal lenses fit over the user\rquote 
s eyes to expand his field of vision. Flanking opponents gain only a +1 bonus when attacking the user instead of +2 (rogues still get their full sneak attack damage because the wearer is s
till flanked). The wearer gains a +1 enhancement bonus on Spot checks but takes a \endash 2 penalty on saves against gaze attacks.
\par Faint clairsentience; ML 1st; Craft Universal Item, }{\i ubiquitous vision; }{Price 3,000 gp.
\par }{\b Eyes of Power Leech:}{ These crystal lenses fit over the user\rquote s eyes. Once per day, the wearer is able to drain power points from another psionic creature or character by meeting its gaze as if using }{\i power leech}{
. A selected target within 40 feet must succeed on a DC 16 Will save, or a connection of cra
ckling energy is formed between the wearer and the victim. The connection drains 1d6 power points from the target for every round in which the wearer maintains concentration (to a maximum of 7 rounds). The wearer gains 1 power point from those drained fro
m the target each round (subject to his normal maximum; points he cannot gain immediately are lost).
\par If the wearer has only one lens, the DC of the Will save is 14 instead of 16.
\par }{\i Eyes of power leech }{have no effect on nonpsionic targets or psionic creatures with a current power point reserve of 0.
\par Moderate telepathy; ML 7th; Craft Universal Item, }{\i power leech; }{Price 10,080 gp.
\par }{\b Eyes of Power Leech, Vampiric:}{ As }{\i eyes of power leech, }{except the wearer gains drained power points from the subject even if doing so would bring him over his normal maximum. The wearer of }{\i vampiric eyes of power leech }{
can maintain concentration for up to 13 rounds. Power points the wearer gains in excess of his maximum fade after 8 hours if they are not spent before that time.
\par Strong telepathy; ML 15th; Craft Universal Item, }{\i bend reality, power leech; }{Price 20,160 gp.
\par }{\b Gloves of Object Reading: }{While wearing these gloves, the user can learn the details of an inanimate object\rquote s previous owner if he handles the object, as if manifesting the }{\i object reading }{power.
\par Faint clairsentience; ML 1st; Craft Universal Item, }{\i object reading; }{Price 3,000 gp.
\par }{\b Gloves of Titan\rquote s Grip:}{ While wearing these oversize gloves, the user gains a +8 enhancement bonus on grapple checks. The power is activated when the u
ser enters a grapple. The enhancement bonus lasts for a maximum of 7 rounds per use, up to three uses per day.
\par Moderate psychometabolism; ML 9th; Craft Universal Item, }{\i grip of iron; }{Price 14,000 gp.
\par }{\b Mirror of Mind Switch: }{This small hand mirror manifests i
ts power once per day against a creature that sees its reflection within it, as a gaze attack with a range of 30 feet. Potential victims can attempt to avert their eyes or look away as they would from a normal gaze attack. A creature meeting its own gaze 
in the mirror must succeed on a DC 19 Will save, or its mind and the mind of the mirror\rquote s wielder switch, as if by the }{\i mind switch }{
power. Because the mirror is small, only a single creature can meet its own gaze. The wielder of the mirror is not affected by seeing himself.
\par Moderate telepathy; ML 11th; Craft Universal Item, }{\i mind switch; }{Price 19,800 gp; Weight 1/2 lb.
\par }{\b Mirror of Suggestion:}{ This small hand mirror manifests its power up to twice per day against creatures that see their reflections within it, as
 a gaze attack with a range of 30 feet. Potential victims can attempt to avert their eyes or look away as they would from a normal gaze attack. A creature meeting its own gaze in the mirror must succeed on a DC 13 Will save or be affected by a }{\i 
suggestion }{chosen by the mirror\rquote s wielder. Because the mirror is small, only a single creature can meet its own gaze each round. The wielder of the mirror is not affected by seeing herself.
\par Faint telepathy; ML 3rd; Craft Universal Item, }{\i psionic suggestion; }{Price 3,600 gp; Weight 1/2 lb.
\par }{\b Mirror of Time Hop: }{This small hand mirror manifests its power up to twice per day against creatures that see their reflections within it, as a gaze attack with a range of 30 feet. Potential victims can attempt to avert their eyes or lo
ok away as they would from a normal gaze attack. A creature meeting its own gaze in the mirror must succeed on a DC 14 Will save or be pushed forward in time by 5 rounds, as if subject to the }{\i time hop }{
power. Because the mirror is small, only a single creature can meet its own gaze each round. The wielder of the mirror is not affected by seeing herself.
\par Faint psychoportation; ML 5th; Craft Universal Item, }{\i time hop; }{Price 9,000 gp; Weight 1/2 lb.
\par }{\b Pearl, Brain Lock:}{ This tiny pearly sphere speeds toward its ta
rget when hurled by its owner. He can hurl the pearl at any target within 130 feet that he can see and to which he has line of effect. If the target fails a DC 13 Will saving throw, the pearl seems to impact and then enter the flesh of the target. The tar
get stands mentally paralyzed, as if by }{\i brain lock, }{for 3 rounds. The use destroys the item. 
\par Faint telepathy: ML 3rd; Craft Universal Item, }{\i brain lock; }{Price 300 gp.
\par }{\b Pearl, Breath Crisis:}{ This tiny pearly sphere speeds toward its target when hurled by its 
owner. He can hurl the pearl at any target within 150 feet that he can see and to which he has line of effect. If the target fails a DC 14 Will saving throw, the pearl seems to impact and then enter the flesh of the target. The target is affected as if by
 }{\i crisis of breath }{for 5 minutes. The use destroys the item. 
\par Faint telepathy; ML 5th; Craft Universal Item, }{\i crisis of breath; }{Price 750 gp.
\par }{\b Pearl, Mind Seed: }{This tiny pearly sphere instantly takes on the skin tone and texture of whatever creature handles i
t. It speeds toward its target when hurled by its owner. He can hurl the pearl at any target within 150 feet that he can see and to which he has line of effect. If the target fails a DC 22 Will saving throw, the pearl seems to impact and then enter the fl
esh of the target. The target is affected as if by a }{\i mind seed }{power, with the pearl\rquote s wielder acting as the manifester. The use destroys the item.
\par Strong telepathy; ML 15th; Craft Universal Item, }{\i mind seed; }{Cost 6,000 gp + 2,500 XP; Price 18,500 gp.
\par }{\b Pearl, Personality Parasite:}{
 This tiny pearly sphere speeds toward its target when hurled by its owner. He can hurl the pearl at any target within 130 feet that he can see and to which he has line of effect. If the target fails a DC 16 Will saving throw, the pea
rl seems to impact and then enter the flesh of the target. The target is affected as if by }{\i personality parasite }{for 5 rounds. The use destroys the item. 
\par Faint telepathy; ML 7th; Craft Universal Item, }{\i personality parasite; }{Price 1,400 gp.
\par }{\b Psionatrix: }{Each of these multifaceted crystals is worn as an amulet. Unless noted otherwise, a psionatrix adds a +1 enhancement bonus to the save DC when the wearer uses powers of the discipline to which the psionatrix is keyed.
\par }{\i Psionatrix of clairsentience: }{Blue light glimmers in this crystal\rquote s heart. 
\par Moderate clairsentience; ML 8th; Craft Universal Item, creator must be a seer; Price 8,000 gp.
\par }{\i Psionatrix of metacreativity: }{Green light glimmers in this crystal\rquote s heart.
\par Moderate metacreativity; ML 8th; Craft Universal Item, creator must be a shaper; Price 8,000 gp.
\par }{\i Psionatrix of psychokinesis: }{Red light glimmers in this crystal\rquote s heart.
\par Moderate psychokinesis; ML 8th; Craft Universal Item, creator must be a kineticist; Price 8,000 gp.
\par }{\i Psionatrix of psychometabolism: }{Violet light glimmers in this crystal\rquote s heart.
\par Moderate psychometabolism; ML 8th; Craft Universal Item, creator must be an egoist; Price 8,000 gp.
\par }{\i Psionatrix of psychoportation: }{Yellow-red light glimmers in this crystal\rquote s heart.
\par Moderate psychoportation; ML 8th; Craft Universal Item, creator must be a nomad; Price 8,000 gp.
\par }{\i Psionatrix of telepathy: }{Piercing yellow light shines from this crystal\rquote s heart.
\par Moderate telepathy; ML 8th; Craft Universal Item, creator must be a telepath; Price 8,000 gp.
\par }{\b Psionic Restraints:}{
 Each of the various psionic restraints is an iron cuff that cunningly locks around the wrist (DC 27 Open Lock check). The cuff limits the total number of power points a psionic creature wearing it can use in 1 round (regardless of the creature\rquote 
s total power point reserve), or completely damps the ability to use psionics. All types of psionic restraints prevent the free manifesting of powers.
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1392\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1650 
\cellx3042\clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1455 \cellx4497\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Restraint Type\cell 
}\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Allowed Power}{\b  Points/Round\cell }\pard\plain \s9\qr \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel8\rin0\lin0 
\b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Market Price\cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1392\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1650 \cellx3042\clvertalb\clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1455 \cellx4497\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1392\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1650 \cellx3042\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1455 \cellx4497\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Lesser\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {5\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1,000 gp\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1392\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1650 \cellx3042\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1455 \cellx4497\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Average\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {3\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {6,000 gp\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1392\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1650 \cellx3042\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1455 \cellx4497\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Greater\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {12,000 gp\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1392\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1650 \cellx3042\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1455 \cellx4497\row }\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1392\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1650 \cellx3042
\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1455 \cellx4497\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Damping\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {0\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {24,000 gp\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1392\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1650 \cellx3042\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1455 \cellx4497\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {Strong psychokinesis; ML 16th; Craft Universal Item, }{\i bend reality, dispel psionics; }{Weight 1 lb.
\par }{\b Psychoactive Skins:}{ Psychoactive skins (also sometimes called ectoshells) are fistsized globs of psionically charged ectoplasm. As a sta
ndard action, a psychoactive skin spreads over and covers a Medium or smaller creature that projects the proper command thought; the same command thought causes the skin to shrink back down to its former size. Each of the various psychoactive skins is cha
rged with one of a wide array of powers that constantly affect the wearer.
\par A deployed skin completely covers the wearer and all his equipment like a second skin, allowing the wearer to see, hear, and breathe normally. It rolls away from various parts of the
 body as needed, such as when the wearer needs to eat or access a backpack. Held items or items specifically excluded are not covered by a psychoactive skin.
\par Up to three skins can be worn simultaneously, although only the outermost is active in any given r
ound (the powers of hidden skins cannot be manifested). Skin layers can be changed with a command thought as a standard action, which causes a lower-layer skin to come to the surface.
\par }{\i Skin of the Chameleon: }{This psychoactive skin adjusts to surrounding textures and colors, continually granting the wearer a +10 enhancement bonus on Hide checks.
\par Faint psychometabolism; ML 3rd; Craft Universal Item, }{\i chameleon; }{Price 18,000 gp; Weight 2 lb.
\par }{\i Skin of the Claw: }{This psychoactive skin benefits only a wearer who has levels in psychic warrior. If such a character wears this skin, he can activate the }{\i claws of the beast }{
power at will, as a free action that does not provoke attacks of opportunity. He can also dismiss the claws equally quickly.
\par Faint psychometabolism; ML 4th; Craft Universal Item, }{\i claws of the beast; }{Price 16,000 gp; Weight 2 lb.
\par }{\i Skin of the Defender: }{This psychoactive skin continually grants the wearer a +4 bonus to natural armor.
\par Faint psychometabolism; ML 5th; Craft Universal Item, }{\i thicken skin; }{Price 32,000 gp; Weight 2 lb.
\par }{\i Skin of Fiery Response: }{This psychoactive skin answers the first attack made against the wearer in each round with an automatically manifested and targeted \'93ectoburst\'94 against the attacker. The burst ejects from the skin on the wearer\rquote 
s turn, making a ranged touch attack as described in the }{\i energy retort }{
power, but the energy type chosen is always fire. If the attack hits, the target takes 2d6 points of fire damage as the ectoburst flames up and is consumed. This attack does not in an
y way hinder the wearer, count against her total actions for the round, or provoke attacks of opportunity.
\par Faint psychokinesis; ML 5th; Craft Universal Item, }{\i energy retort; }{Price 60,000 gp; Weight 2 lb.
\par }{\i Skin of the Hero: }{This psychoactive skin continually grants the wearer a +3 deflection bonus to Armor Class, a +3 resistance bonus on all saving throws, and a +3 enhancement bonus on attack rolls.
\par Strong psychometabolism; ML 18th; Craft Universal Item, }{\i bend reality; }{Price 77,500 gp; Weight 2 lb.
\par }{\i Skin of Iron: }{This psychoactive skin affects the wearer as the }{\i psionic iron body }{power up to three times per day for 15 minutes with each use. When the skin\rquote s power is not active, it has no protective qualities. Activating the }{\i 
psionic iron body }{effect is a standard action that provokes attacks of opportunity.
\par Strong metacreativity; ML 15th; Craft Universal Item, }{\i psionic iron body; }{Price 129,600 gp; Weight 2 lb.
\par }{\i Skin of Nimbleness: }{This psychoactive skin continually grants the wearer a +10 competence bonus on Tumble checks.
\par Moderate psychometabolism; ML 8th; Craft Universal Item, creator must have 10 ranks in Tumble; Price 10,000 gp; Weight 2 lb.
\par }{\i Skin of Proteus: }{This psychoactive skin continually affects the wearer as the }{\i metamorphosis }{power. While in a form other than his natural form, the wearer does not appear to be wearing the skin.
\par Moderate psychometabolism; ML 7th; Craft Universal Item, }{\i metamorphosis; }{Price 84,000 gp; Weight 2 lb.
\par }{\i Skin of the Psion: }{This psychoactive skin grants the wearer 7 bonus power points per day and power resistance 21. 
\par Strong clairsentience; ML 17th; Craft Universal Item, }{\i power resistance; }{Price 151,000 gp; Weight 2 lb.
\par }{\i Skin of the Spider: }{This psychoactive skin continually grants the wearer a +20 competence bonus on Climb checks and continually affects the wearer as the }{\i body equilibrium }{power. Three times per day, the wearer can manifest }{\i 
entangling ectoplasm }{against a target within 30 feet.
\par Faint psychometabolism; ML 3rd; Craft Universal Item, creator must have 10 ranks in Climb, }{\i body equilibrium, entangling ectoplasm; }{Price 79,080 gp; Weight 2 lb.
\par }{\i Skin of the Troll: }{This psychoactive skin continually allows a living wearer to heal more quickly. The wearer heals 5 points of damage per minute. Except for the slower rate of healing, this skin a
ffects its wearer as if the wearer were under the effect of a continual }{\i true metabolism }{power. 
\par Strong psychometabolism; ML 17th; Craft Universal Item, }{\i true metabolism; }{Price 61,200 gp; Weight 2 lb.
\par Ring of Self-Sufficiency: This crystalline ring continually grants the wearer a +10 competence bonus on Autohypnosis checks.
\par Moderate psychometabolism; ML 7th; Craft Universal Item, creator must have 10 ranks in Autohypnosis; Price 10,000 gp.
\par }{\b Shards:}{ These universal items are tiny fragments of cast-off crystal imprinted with minuscule bits of psionic power. Using a }{\i shard }{requires grasping it and projecting a command thought as a standard action (most }{\i shards }{
telepathically whisper their command word into the minds of living creatures who handle them). A }{\i shard }{gran
ts a temporary competence bonus on one specific skill, ranging from +1 to +10. The granted bonus lasts until the skill is used or 10 rounds pass, whichever comes first. Once its effect is activated, a }{\i shard }{
disintegrates immediately, whether or not the bonus granted by the }{\i shard }{is eventually used.
\par Moderate psychometabolism; ML 7th; Craft Universal Item, creator must have ranks in the specified skill at least equal to the imprinted bonus; Price 10 gp (+1), 40 gp (+2), 90 gp (+3), 160 gp (+4), 250 gp (+5), 3
60 gp (+6), 490 gp (+7), 640 gp (+8), 810 gp (+9), or 1,000 gp (+10). 
\par }{\b Third Eyes: }{These objects appear as small crystals, always with at least one wide, flat facet, and contain a variety of powers. When the owner uses the proper command thought, the cryst
al adheres to the center of his forehead (the same command thought causes the }{\i third eye }{to disengage). Only one }{\i third eye }{can be worn at a time.
\par A }{\i third eye }{is treated as eyewear or goggles for the purpose of determining which items can be worn on the body.
\par }{\i Aware: }{This kind of }{\i third eye }{continually grants the wearer a +10 competence bonus on Spot checks.
\par Moderate clairsentience; ML 7th; Craft Universal Item, creator must have 10 ranks in Spot; Price 10,000 gp.
\par }{\i Conceal: }{While worn, a }{\i third eye conceal }{protec
ts the wearer from view by all devices, powers, and spells that detect, inf luence, or read emotions or thoughts. This power protects against all mind-affecting powers and effects as well as information-gathering by clairsentience powers or effects (excep
t for }{\i metafaculty}{); this item affects the wearer as if he enjoyed the benefit of the }{\i psionic mind blank }{power.
\par Strong telepathy; ML 15th; Craft Universal Item, }{\i psionic mind blank; }{Price 120,000 gp.
\par }{\i Concentrate: }{This kind of }{\i third eye }{continually grants the wearer a +10 competence bonus on Concentration checks. 
\par Moderate telepathy; ML 7th; Craft Universal Item, creator must have 10 ranks in Concentration; Price 10,000 gp.
\par }{\i Dominate: }{The wearer of a }{\i third eye dominate }{can attempt to dominate a subject as with the power }{\i psionic dominate, }{augmented to target any creature type it can affect, once per day (save DC 18).
\par Strong telepathy; ML 15th; Craft Universal Item, }{\i psionic dominate; }{Price 120,000 gp.
\par }{\i Expose: }{The wearer of this kind of }{\i third eye }{always knows when someone lies directly to him.
\par Strong telepathy; ML 15th; Craft Universal Item, }{\i bend reality; }{Price 112,000 gp.
\par }{\i Gather: }{This kind of }{\i third eye }{continually grants the wearer a +10 competence bonus on Gather Information checks.
\par Moderate clairsentience; ML 7th; Craft Universal Item, creator must have 10 ranks in Gather Information; Price 10,000 gp.
\par }{\i Penetrate: }{While worn, a }{\i third eye penetrate }{grants the wearer a +2 bonus on manifester level checks to overcome a creature\rquote s power resistance.
\par Strong clairsentience; ML 15th; Craft Universal Item, }{\i bend reality; }{Price 8,000 gp.
\par }{\i Powerthieve: }{While worn, a }{\i third eye powerthieve }{allows the wearer to borrow one power from a psionic target within 40 feet once per day. If the target fails a DC 16 Will save, it instantly loses one power of the wearer\rquote 
s choice, and the wearer instantly gains temporary knowledge of this power.
\par The wearer can manifest the borrowed power normally if she has sufficient power points to pay for its cost. The wearer retains knowledge of the power for 
up to 70 minutes, at which time she loses knowledge of the power and the former owner regains it, regardless of the distance between them. If the former owner is dead, the wearer still loses the borrowed power.
\par Moderate telepathy; ML 7th; Craft Universal Item, }{\i thieving mindlink; }{Price 10,080 gp.
\par }{\i Repudiate: }{While worn, this powerful item allows the wearer to manifest }{\i dispel psionics }{once per day with a +20 modifier on the dispel check (the wearer uses the +20 modifier in place of his manifester level).
\par Strong psychokinesis; ML 20th; Craft Universal Item, }{\i dispel psionics; }{Price 43,200 gp.
\par }{\i Sense}{: The wearer of this kind of }{\i third eye }{can manifest }{\i clairvoyant sense }{at will.
\par Faint clairsentience; ML 3rd; Craft Universal Item, }{\i clairvoyant sense; }{Price 24,000 gp.
\par }{\i View: }{The wearer of this kind of }{\i third eye }{can spin a quasireal version of himself and send it over virtually any distance or into other planes of existence, as if manifesting the }{\i remote viewing }{power, once per day.
\par Moderate clairsentience; ML 7th; Craft Universal Item, }{\i remote viewing; }{Price 10,180 gp.
\par }{\b Torc of Free Will:}{ This item is a band inlaid with precious metal, worn around the neck or upper arm. The wearer of a }{\i torc of free will }{is not affected by the }{\i brain lock }{power or items that produce }{\i brain lock }{effects (such as }
{\i crystal anchors}{).
\par A torc is treated as an amulet for the purpose of determining which items can be worn on the body.
\par Faint telepathy; ML 3rd; Craft Universal Item, }{\i brain lock; }{Price 6,000 gp; Weight 2 lb.
\par }{\b Torc of Leech Freedom:}{ This item is a band inlaid with precious metal, worn around the neck or upper arm. The wearer of a }{\i torc of leech freedom }{automatically resists up to two uses of }{\i power leech }{against him per day.
\par A torc is treated as an amulet for the purpose of determining which items can be worn on the body.
\par Faint telepathy; ML 5th; Craft Universal Item, }{\i power leech; }{Price 12,000 gp; Weight 2 lb.
\par }{\b Torc of Power Preservation:}{ This item is a band inlaid with precious metal, worn around the neck or upper arm. The wearer of a }{\i torc of power preservation }{
manifests all powers by paying power points equal to the standard cost minus 1 (minimum of 1).
\par A torc is treated as an amulet for the purpose of determining which items can be worn on the body.
\par Strong clairsentience; ML 15th; Craft Universal Item, }{\i bend reality; }{Price 36,000 gp; Weight 2 lb.
\par }{\fs24 
\par CURSED ITEMS
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1824\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b d%\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b Curse\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1824\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx1824\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {01\endash 33\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Backfire\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1824\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {34\endash 66\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Exhausting\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1824\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1824\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {67\endash 100\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Subversive
\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1824\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b Backfire:}{
 The imbedded psionic effect of the cursed item targets the user instead of its intended target.
\par }{\b Exhausting:}{ A cursed item of this sort resembles a normal psionic item with a power that can be freely activated, but it instead drains the user of power points whenever he activates its power. 
\par }{\b Subversive: }{A cursed item of this sort appears identical to a standard psionic item. However, it holds an inner malice for the wearer, whose saving throws take a constant \endash 2 penalty. The owner isn\rquote 
t instantly aware of this penalty but may become aware after a while, when it becomes clear that he fails saves that others make with the same result on the saving throw.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Specific Cursed Item
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Reverse Capacitor:}{ A }{\i reverse capacitor }{doesn\rquote t store power points\emdash 
it drains them, to the surprise and chagrin of a psionic character taken in by its resemblance to a }{\i cognizance crystal. }{Powers that identify psionic items incorrectly identify a }{\i reverse capacitor }{as a }{\i cognizance crystal }{
50% of the time.
\par A psionic character attempting to use the power points supposedly stored in a }{\i reverse capacitor }{instead loses 1d6 power points per round for 7 rounds. A crackli
ng arc connects the brow of the character with the stone. If the character can put more than 40 feet between himself and the }{\i reverse capacitor, }{the effect ends. If the }{\i reverse capacitor }{
drains more power points than the psionic character possesses, the draining effect ends.
\par The drained power points are simply lost. Each new attempt to use the power points supposedly stored in the }{\i reverse capacitor }{initiates the draining effect anew.
\par Strong telepathy; ML 15th; Craft Universal Item, }{\i bend reality, power leech; }{Price 112,000 gp; Weight 1 lb.
\par }{\fs24 
\par PSIONIC ARTIFACTS
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Minor Artifacts
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
Minor artifacts are not necessarily unique items, Instead, they are psionic items that no longer can be made, at least by common mortal means.
\par }{\b Sutra of Tranquil Thought:}{ This monastic tome 
describes ancient techniques of mental focus and is highly prized by psionic practitioners. If a psionic character who is not evil studies the work during one week of solitary contemplation, he gains 17 bonus power points and experience points sufficient 
t
o place him halfway into the next level of experience. Those who use their powers for evil are punished for their impertinence, losing 5d6 x 1,000 XP for defiling the book. In addition, an evil reader must make an immediate DC 15 Will save or become perma
nently }{\i confused }{as if affected by the }{\i insanity }{power. Only }{\i psychic chirurgery }{or similarly extreme measures can restore sanity.
\par The minds of nonpsionic beings are too clouded to benefit from the secrets of this book. To anyone without psionic aptitude, the book\rquote 
s pages appear to contain nothing but elaborate patterns and drawings of mysterious beings. Once it is read, the book vanishes into the Astral Plane to an unknown destination. Even if it is found again, the same character cannot benefit twice from per
using its contents.
\par Strong telepathy; ML 20th; Weight 3 lb. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Major Artifacts
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Major artifacts are unique items\emdash 
only one of each such item exists. They are difficult to find and dangerous to handle, but once found, are often even more difficult to destroy. A major psionic artifact has only a single, specific means of destruction.
\par }{\b Annulus: }{This artifact is the ultimate psionic nullifier. Forged to keep enemies of vast psionic power at bay, the }{\i Annulus }{is an artifact that any psionic being should fear. It has 
been forgotten in the modern age, and merely finding it would precipitate a great upheaval across the planes.
\par The }{\i Annulus }{is a 1-foot-diameter ring of silvery material. Tiny slots, antennae, spheres, and other intricate projections decorate the exterior of
 the hoop; however, two smoothed lengths of the ring provide an adequate surface for grasping the item.
\par The }{\i Annulus }{has several powers, all of which require a wielder to tightly grasp the ring with at least one hand. When it is first grasped, knowledge of the artifact\rquote s powers immediately flood the wielder\rquote 
s mind. The wielder can access all powers of the }{\i Annulus }{at manifester level 20th.
\par \bullet  The }{\i Annulus }{generates a continuous }{\i catapsi }{effect within a 100-foot-radius of the wielder (who is unaffected).
\par \bullet  The wielder gains a +4 enhancement bonus on any attempt to resist an effect that deals ability damage.
\par \bullet  Once per day, the wielder can trigger }{\i ultrablast }{as a standard action.
\par \bullet  Three times per day, as a standard action, the wielder can trigger an effect similar to }{\i psionic dimensional anchor }{that affects all creatures in a 50-foot radius.
\par The primary power of the }{\i Annulus, }{however, is psionic nullification. Once per year, the wielder can trigger this effect as a special action requiring 10 rounds of continuous con
centration to complete. The wielder specifies a target or targets within a 100-foot radius, ranging from a specific psionic individual or item to a group of psionic beings that share the same philosophy. The nullification effect is accompanied by blasts o
f light, heat, and sound from the }{\i Annulus. }{Nonpsionic creatures and items are unaffected, as are nontargeted beings, but any psionic target\emdash regardless of any protection it may possess\emdash 
disintegrates in a terrific explosion. Nothing is left but floating dust.
\par It is relatively easy to nullify a single target or a small group of targets, but nullifying a more powerful being (such as a demigod or greater entity) or another major artifact taxes the }{\i Annulus }{
to its limits. If it is used to nullify such a target, the artifact succeeds but is destroyed in the process and cannot be retrieved by any means.
\par }{\b Psicrown of the Crystal Mind:}{ An elaborate crystalline psicrown etched with strange designs, this exceptional psicrown is so invested with power that it is considered an artifact. 
\par The power points in the }{\i Psicrown of the Crystal Mind }{can be used to manifest any of the following powers at manifester level 20th (or at the wearer\rquote s manifester level if it is higher than 20th).
\par }{\i \bullet  Burst
\par \bullet  Catfall
\par \bullet  }{C}{\i oncealing amorpha, greater
\par \bullet  Concussion blast
\par \bullet  Daze, psionic
\par \bullet  Detect psionics
\par \bullet  Dominate, psionic
\par \bullet  Far hand
\par \bullet  Float
\par \bullet  Mindlink
\par \bullet  Inertial barrier
\par \bullet  Telekinetic force
\par \bullet  Telekinetic maneuver
\par \bullet  Telekinetic thrust
\par \bullet  Teleport, psionic
\par \bullet  Thicken skin
\par \bullet  True metabolism
\par }{The wearer of the }{\i Psicrown of the Crystal Mind }{also gains power resistance equal to 10 + his manifester level.
\par The }{\i Psicrown of the Crystal Mind }{has 1,000 power points when discovered. Anyone who dons the crown instantly knows the number of power points it has at the curre
nt time. The crown recharges itself, gaining back 1 power point per day if it currently has fewer than 1,000 points.
\par As a special one-time use of the psicrown, the wearer can channel all the remaining charges in the psicrown into an uncontrolled burst of e
nergy. The wearer triggers this use as a standard action. All within 20 feet of the wearer take hit points of damage equal to half the power points left in the staff (Reflex DC 18 half). The wearer inhabits a tiny eye of calm at the center of the destruct
ion and is unharmed, but the psicrown is reduced to a burned-out cinder.
\par }{\fs36 
\par }\pard\plain \s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel4\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs36 CREATING PSIONIC ITEMS
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
To calculate the costs involved in creating a psionic item, refer to Creating Magic Items. Although that information deals with magic items, the price formulas presented there are identical to those for psionic items.
\par Creating psionic armor and psionic weapons is almost identical to the requirements for creating magic armor and magic weapons}{\i .
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Creating Dorjes
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {To create a dorje, a character needs a small supply of 
materials, the most obvious being a chunk of crystal or the crystal shards of the dorje to be carved from or assembled. The cost of the materials is subsumed in the cost of creating the dorje\emdash 
375 gp x the level of the power x the level of the manifester. Dorjes are always fully charged (50 charges) when created.
\par If an augmentable power is incorporated into a dorje at a higher manifester level than the minimum level required to manifest the power, each discharge of the power from the dorje is augmented to th
e limit of that higher manifester level. Alternatively, if you want to have a higher manifester level in the dorje, you must pay for the dorje as if the power was one level higher for each additional two manifester levels you want. 
\par The creator must know the power or powers to be imprinted in the dorje (or must have the power available in some other form). If manifesting the power would reduce the manifester\rquote 
s experience point total, she pays the cost (multiplied by 50) upon beginning the dorje in addition 
to the experience point cost for making the dorje itself. The act of working on the dorje costs a number of power points per day equal to the power point cost of the power that is being embedded in the crystal of the dorje.
\par Crafting a dorje requires one day for each 1,000 gp of the base price.
\par Item Creation Feat Required: Craft Dorje.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Creating Power Stones
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
To create a power stone, a character needs a supply of incense and fine etching tools, the cost of which is subsumed in the cost of encoding the power stone\emdash 
12.5 gp x the level of the power x the level of the manifester. All materials used to imprint a power stone must be fresh and unused. A character must pay the full cost for encoding each power stone no matter how many times she previously has imprinted
 the same power.
\par The creator must know the power or powers to be imprinted in the power stone (or must have the power available in some other form). If manifesting the power would reduce the manifester\rquote s experience point total, she pays the cost upon begin
ning the power stone in addition to the experience point cost for making the power stone itself. The act of encoding triggers the power as if it had been manifested, costing the character an appropriate number of power points.
\par Encoding a power stone requires one day for each 1,000 gp of the base price.
\par Item Creation Feat Required: Imprint Stone. 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Creating Psicrowns
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
To create a psicrown, a character needs a supply of materials, the most obvious being a circlet, crown, or the pieces of the crown to be assembled. The cost of the materials is subsumed in the cost of creating the psicrown\emdash 
375 gp x the level of the highest-level power x the level of the manifester, + 75% of the value of the next highest-level power (281.25 gp x the level of the power x the level o
f the manifester), + one-half of the value of any other powers (187.5 gp x the level of the power x the level of the manifester). Psicrowns are always created with full power points.
\par Alternatively, if you want to have a higher manifester level in the psicrown, you must pay for the psicrown as if the highest-level power is one level higher for each additional two manifester levels you want.
\par The creator must know the power or powers to be imprinted in the psicrown (or must have the power available in some oth
er form). If any of the powers has an XP cost, the creator must provide XP equal to 50 x that cost. This expense is in addition to the experience point cost for making the psicrown itself. The act of working on a psicrown costs a number of power points pe
r day equal to the cost of manifesting each of the powers associated with the psicrown once per day.
\par Crafting a psicrown requires one day for each 1,000 gp of the base price.
\par Item Creation Feat Required: Craft Psicrown.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Creating Psionic Tattoos
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {The creator 
of a psionic tattoo must have a patch of uncovered skin free of hair and fur, and at least a few containers in which to mix dyes. In addition, he needs special materials, usually to create dyes. The costs for materials and dyes are subsumed in the cost fo
r scribing the psionic tattoo\emdash 
 25 gp x the level of the power x the level of the manifester. All ingredients and materials used to scribe a psionic tattoo must be fresh and unused. The character must pay the full cost for scribing each psionic tattoo. (Econ
omies of scale do not apply.)
\par The user of the psionic tattoo is both the manifester and the target; therefore, powers that target another creature}{\i  }{cannot be stored in psionic tattoo form. Powers with a range of personal can be made into psionic tattoos, bu
t they cost double the price of standard psionic tattoos.
\par The creator must know the power to be placed in the psionic tattoo (or must have the power available in some other form). If manifesting the power would reduce the manifester\rquote s XP total, he pays the
 XP cost upon beginning the scribing in addition to the experience point cost for making the psionic tattoo itself. The act of scribing triggers the power as if it had been manifested, costing the character an appropriate number of power points.
\par Scribing a psionic tattoo requires one day.
\par Item Creation Feat Required: Scribe Tattoo.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Creating Universal Items
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
To create a universal item, a character usually needs some sort of equipment or tools to work on the item. He also needs a supply of materials, the most 
obvious being the item itself or the pieces of the item to be assembled. The cost for the materials is subsumed in the cost for creating the item. Universal item costs are difficult to formularize. Refer to Table}{: Estimating Magic Item Gold Piece Values
}{\i  }{and use the given item prices as a guideline. Creating an item costs half the market value listed.
\par If powers are involved in the prerequisites for making the item, the creator must know the power to be placed in the item (or must have the power available in 
some other form). Any experience point cost for a prerequisite power is not incurred by the creator of the item. The act of working on the item requires a payment of power points appropriate to the power or powers associated with the item during each day 
of the item\rquote s creation.
\par Crafting a universal item requires one day for each 1,000 gp of the base price.
\par Item Creation Feat Required: Craft Universal Item.
\par }{\fs36 
\par SPECIAL MATERIALS
\par }{In addition to psionic items with imbedded powers, some substances have innate special properties.
\par }{\b Crystal, Deep: }{Deep crystal is crystal of above-average quality found at the hearts of large veins or deposits of mundane crystal (see below). Deep crystal is renowned for its strength and its psionically resonant nature. Mundane crystal is
 used for many items of psionic manufacture, such as dorjes, power stones, and psicrystals. Deep crystal is a better grade.
\par While a weapon made of deep crystal is no different from a mundane crystal weapon for a nonpsionic character, a psionic wielder of a
 deep crystal weapon can focus psionic power through it, increasing the damage that weapon deals. As a free action that does not provoke attacks of opportunity, the wielder can channel psionic power into a melee weapon or ranged weapon made of deep crysta
l
. For 2 power points, the deep crystal weapon deals an extra 2d6 points of damage. The weapon will stay charged for 1 minute or until it scores its next hit. Bows, crossbows, and slings bestow this power on their ammunition. All missile weapons lose this 
effect if they miss. However, they may be recovered and charged again.
\par Any weapon made of deep crystal costs 1,000 gp more than its noncrystal counterpart. Any item could potentially be made out of deep crystal. Because deep crystal armor is considered to be made out of metal, druids cannot wear it.
\par Deep crystal has 30 hit points per inch of thickness and a hardness of 10.
\par }{\b Crystal, Mundane:}{ Mundane crystal can be used in place of metal in weapons or armor, using a special forging process. The fortified crystal possesses the properties of a similar masterwork steel weapon or armor, except for visual appearance.
\par Weapons and armor made of mundane crystal cost the same amount to make as their masterwork counterparts. Any item could potentially be made with mundane crystal. Because mundane crystal armor is considered to be made out of metal, druids cannot wear it.

\par Mundane crystal properly forged has 25 hit points per inch of thickness and a hardness of 8.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }}