{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f28\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f29\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f31\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f32\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f33\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f34\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f35\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f44\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f45\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f47\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f48\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f49\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}
{\f50\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f51\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{
\s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{\s4\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 4;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar
\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Preformatted;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1171835036
\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-360\li1800\jclisttab\tx1800 }{\listname 
;}\listid-132}{\list\listtemplateid-1259283726\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 
\fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440 }{\listname ;}\listid-131}{\list\listtemplateid-205616708\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr
\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-360\li1080\jclisttab\tx1080 }{\listname ;}\listid-130}{\list\listtemplateid-2114025972\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0
{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid-129}{\list\listtemplateid316704552\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0
\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li1800\jclisttab\tx1800 }{\listname ;}\listid-128}{\list\listtemplateid-615348062
\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440 }
{\listname ;}\listid-127}{\list\listtemplateid-280570430\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 
\chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li1080\jclisttab\tx1080 }{\listname ;}\listid-126}{\list\listtemplateid1394099946\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid-125}{\list\listtemplateid104632372\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0
\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid-120}{\list\listtemplateid711635824\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23
\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid-119}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid-119\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid-125\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid-126\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid-127\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid-128
\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid-120\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid-129\listoverridecount0\ls7}{\listoverride\listid-130\listoverridecount0\ls8}{\listoverride\listid-131\listoverridecount0\ls9}{\listoverride\listid-132
\listoverridecount0\ls10}}{\info{\title This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1}{\author asmith}{\operator asmith}{\creatim\yr2004\mo4\dy7\hr11\min8}{\revtim\yr2004\mo4\dy7\hr11\min8}
{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages22}{\nofwords10144}{\nofchars57822}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws71009}{\vern8229}}\margl1080\margr1080\margt1080\margb1080 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace78\dgvspace180\dghorigin1080\dgvorigin1080\dghshow2\dgvshow2
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 
This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{\f0\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {PSIONIC POWERS (A-C)
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Adapt Body
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 5, psychic warrior 5
\par }{\b Display:}{ Visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 hour/level (D)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 9
\par Your body automatically adapts to hostile environments. You can adapt to underwater, extremely hot, extremely cold, or airless environments, allowing you to survive as if you were a c
reature native to that environment. You can breathe and move (though penalties to movement and attacks, if any for a particular environment, remain), and you take no damage simply from being in that environment. You need not specify what environment you a
re adapting to when you manifest this power; simply activate it, and your body will instantly adapt to any hostile environment as needed throughout the duration.
\par You can somewhat adapt to extreme environmental features such as acid, lava, fire, and electricity. Any environmental feature that normally directly deals 1 or more dice of damage per round deals you only half the usual amount of damage.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Affinity Field
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 9
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material and visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ 20 ft.
\par }{\b Area:}{ 20-ft.-radius emanation, centered on you
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 round/level (D)
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Fortitude negates (potentially harmless)
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 17
\par You create an affinity feedback loop with all creatures within the
 area. While the duration lasts, affected creatures take all damage (including ability damage) as you do and heal all wounds as you do. Hit points gained or lost persist after this power ends.
\par Creatures in range are also subject to magical and psionic effects of 3rd level or lower. Creatures that have an affinity to you gain a saving throw against each new power transferred through the }{\i affinity field }{
as if the power were manifested upon them normally. All magical and psionic effects transferred to subjects fade at the end of this power\rquote 
s duration, although instantaneous effects remain. If you suddenly become immune to a particular effect or power, the effect or power to which you are immune cannot be transferred to creatures that have affinity to you.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Anchored Navigation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience
\par }{\b Level:}{ Seer 4
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material and olfactory
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 hour/level
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 7
\par You know where you are in relation to a fixed starting point, which is essential for setting up a mishap-free }{\i teleport }{
beacon. While the duration lasts, you are aware of your exact distance and route (physical or psychoportive) back to a fixed starting point. The \'93anchored\'94 starting point is your exact location when you manifest th
e power. To designate other anchored starting points, you must manifest this power multiple times and be present at the desired locations when you do so.
\par You can also retrace your steps through a maze automatically while the power lasts, without resorting to a map.
\par }{\i Anchored navigation }{grants you a }{\i mindlink }{with one designated creature who remains within a 60-foot radius of the starting point, regardless of the distance between you and the creature. The use of }{\i anchored navigation }{
is confined to the plane of existence where you manifest it.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ If you spend 6 additional power points, the effect of this power extends across all planar boundaries.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Animal Affinity
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism
\par }{\b Level:}{ Egoist 2, psychic warrior 2
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 min./level
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 3
\par You forge a psychometabolic affinity with an idealized animal form, thereby boosting one of your ability scores (choose either Strength, Dexterity, Constitution, Intelligence, W
isdom, or Charisma). The power grants a +4 enhancement bonus to the ability score you choose, adding the usual benefits provided by a high ability bonus. Because you are emulating the idealized form of an animal, you also take on minor aspects of the anim
a
l you choose. If you choose to increase the ability you use to manifest powers, you do not gain the benefit of an increased ability score long enough to gain any bonus power points for a high ability score, but the save DCs of your powers increase for the
 duration of this power.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every 5 additional power points you spend, this power grants a +4 enhancement bonus to another ability.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Apopsi
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 9
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory, material, and visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 round
\par }{\b Range:}{ Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b Target:}{ One living psionic creature
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Fortitude negates
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 17, XP
\par By using this power, you delete 1d4 powers permanently from the subject\rquote s mind. You specify the level of each power, and the DM randomly determines which of the subject\rquote s powers is actually deleted. }{\i Psychic chirurgery }{or }{\i 
reality revision }{can be used to restore the lost powers, but it must be performed within 1 week of losing the powers.
\par }{\i XP Cost: }{50 XP per level of the deleted powers.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Assimilate
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 9
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory and visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Touch
\par }{\b Target:}{ One living creature touched
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous and 1 hour; see text
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Fortitude half
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 17
\par Your pointing finger turns black as obsidian. A creature touched by you is partially assimilated into your form and takes 20d6 points of damage. Any creature reduced to 0 or few
er hit points by this power is killed, entirely assimilated into your form, leaving behind only a trace of fine dust. An assimilated creature\rquote s equipment is unaffected.
\par A creature that is partially assimilated into your form (that is, a creature that has at least 1 hit point following your use of this power) grants you a number of temporary hit points equal to half the damage you dealt for 1 hour.
\par A creature that is completely assimilated grants you a number of temporary hit points equal to the damage you d
ealt and a +4 bonus to each of your ability scores for 1 hour. If the assimilated creature knows psionic powers, you gain knowledge of one of its powers for 1 hour. You gain some semblance of a creature you completely assimilate for 1 hour, granting you a
 +10 bonus on Disguise checks made to appear as that creature during that time.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Astral Caravan
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychoportation
\par }{\b Level:}{ Nomad 3
\par }{\b Display:}{ None
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 hour
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Targets:}{ You and touched willing creatures
\par }{\b Duration:}{ See text
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 5
\par You lead a caravan into the Astral Plane, leaving the Material Plane behind. Since the Astral Plane touches upon other planes, you can travel astrally to any of these other planes as you wish, but only if you know your way (see below).
\par You can bring other willing creatures with you, provided that these subjects have each manifested }{\i astral traveler }{and are linked hand to hand with you at the time of the }{\i astral caravan}{\rquote 
s manifestation. These fellow travelers are dependent upon you and must accompany you at
 all times. If something happens to you during the journey that causes you to break hand-to-hand contact, your companions are stranded wherever you leave them. Because the planes are a dangerous place, those who lead }{\i astral caravans }{
usually choose to manifest this power only if they have a large party of travelers assembled. Sometimes groups of lower-level adventurers may hire you to lead forays beyond the Material Plane.
\par The }{\i astral caravan }{power lasts while you and your fellow travelers maintain your origi
nal formation, until (1) you reach your intended destination plane, (2) you desire to end the power while still traversing the Astral Plane, (3) you or anyone traveling with you breaks the hand-to-hand chain connecting the travelers for 2 consecutive roun
ds, or (4) the power is terminated by some outside means, such as }{\i dispel psionics}{
. When the power ends, you and your fellow travelers halt in whatever portion of the Astral Plane you happen to be traversing (the Astral Plane is in many ways subjective in location; in any event, one place on the Astral looks much like any other).

\par While you are traveling through the Astral Plane, those natives who happen to glimpse you and your fellow travelers perceive you to be moving at a speed of 30 feet (you can\rquote t run), w
ith you flying in the lead and your fellow travelers strung out behind you, each linked to the next by one hand.
\par Depending on your knowledge of the planes, your journey through the subjective space that is the Astral Plane may take a longer or shorter peri
od of time. For each 24 hours you travel, make a Knowledge (the planes) check. Unless a location is particularly hard to find and well guarded, or conversely easy to find and well advertised, the average DC for an }{\i astral caravan }{
journey should be set at 20. You cannot take 20 on this check, though you can take 10. Each check may be modified by your degree of familiarity with the destination or by some connection you have with the place; see the tables below.
\par 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6036 \cellx5928\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 
{\b Destination Knowledge (the planes)}{\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6036 \cellx5928\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4137 \cellx4029\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1899 \cellx5928\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0 
\b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Knowledge\cell }\pard \s3\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0 {Check Modifier\cell }\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4137 \cellx4029\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1899 \cellx5928\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {None*\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {n/a\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4137 \cellx4029\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1899 \cellx5928\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Secondhand (you have heard of the destination)\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\endash 10\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4137 \cellx4029\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1899 \cellx5928\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Firsthand (you have visited before)\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+0\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4137 \cellx4029\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1899 \cellx5928\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Familiar (you have visited three or more times)\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+5\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4137 \cellx4029\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1899 \cellx5928\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6036 \cellx5928\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {*If you have no direct knowledge of your destination, you must have some connection to it in order to travel there; see below.\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6036 \cellx5928\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4974\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b 
Knowledge (the planes)\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4974\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx3408\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4974\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b Connection\cell }\pard\plain \s4\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0 
\b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Check Modifier\cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3408\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx4974\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Likeness or picture of destination\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+2\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3408\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4974\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Object from destination \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+4\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3408\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4974\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3408\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4974\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Planar Cartographer\rquote s map of destination\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+10\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3408\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4974\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par Each successful check indicates that you are one
 step closer to your goal. To finally arrive at your location, you must succeed on six checks within a span of 12 days. (If you fail to make six successful checks within the first 12 days, you can continue to make one check per day until you get the requi
site six successes within a span of 12 consecutive days). When you successfully make the requisite number of checks, the journey ends, and you appear on your chosen plane within 10\endash 1,000 (1d% x 10) miles of your intended destination on that plane.

\par }{\b Augment:}{ 
If you spend 2 additional power points, this power weaves a quasi-real filmy membrane around yourself and all those adjacent to each other in the caravan (being linked by hand is not required if this membrane is used). You remain visible within the transl
u
cent, amorphous enclosure. You can pick up or drop willing passengers, easily reaching through the film. Anything you hold is enveloped by the film. Any attacks made through the enclosure in either direction have a 25% miss chance due to the rippling memb
rane.
\par When you manifest this power in its augmented form, your apparent speed to those observing on the Astral Plane is 40 feet, and you can make a Knowledge (the planes) check once every 12 hours to attempt to make it to your destination (six successful ch
ecks within 12 consecutive days still sees you to your desired goal).
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Astral Construct
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Metacreativity (Creation)
\par }{\b Level:}{ Shaper 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Visual; see text
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 round
\par }{\b Range:}{ Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b Effect:}{ One created astral construct
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 round/level (D)
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ No
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par This power creates one 1st-level astral construct of solidified ectoplasm that attacks your enemies. It appears where you designate and acts immediately, on your turn. It
 attacks your opponents to the best of its ability. As a free action, you can mentally direct it not to attack, to attack particular enemies, or to perform other actions. The astral construct acts normally on the last round of the power\rquote 
s duration and dissipates at the end of its turn.
\par Astral constructs are not summoned; they are created on the plane you inhabit (using ectoplasm drawn from the Astral Plane). Thus, they are not subject to effects that hedge out or otherwise affect outsiders; they are constructs, not outsiders.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every 2 additional power points you spend, the level of the astral construct increases by one.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Astral Seed
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Metacreativity
\par }{\b Level:}{ Shaper 8
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material; see text
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 10 minutes
\par }{\b Range:}{ 0 ft.
\par }{\b Effect:}{ One storage crystal
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ No
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 15
\par This power weaves strands of astral ectoplasm into a crystal containing the seed of your living mind (hardness 1 and 1 hit point). You can have only one }{\i astral seed }{in existence at any one time. Until such time as you perish, the }{\i astral seed }
{(also called the storage crystal) is utterly inert. If you are slain at some later date, your soul transfers into the storage crystal, which begins to dimly glow.
\par Upon transference, your physical remains (should they still exist) become inert matter and cannot thereafter be restored to life. The transfer from the slain body to the }{\i astral seed }{works over any distance, physical or extradimensional.
\par Once your body\rquote s physical demise activates the storage crystal, you have the abilities of a psicrystal of the appropriate level, plus all the powers you knew and the maximum power points you possessed when }{\i astral seed }{was manifested\emdash 
but you also have a negative level that cannot be healed and that does not convert to real level loss in your current crystalline form. You have thirty days to grow an organic body, after which time your sentience fades and your soul passes on if it hasn
\rquote t entered a new body.
\par To grow a body, you (in the storage crystal) must spend ten days in uninterrupted solitude. The body\rquote 
s constituent parts are pulled as ectoplasm from the Astral Plane, then slowly molded and transformed into a living, breathing body that is an exact duplicate of your body at the time you manifested }{\i astral seed }{
(the crystal itself breaks down and becomes a part of the new organic body). When the tenth day ends, you completely and totally inhabit the new body. You possess all the abilities you possessed when }{\i astral seed }{was manifested, at on
e level lower, but you have none of your equipment.
\par If the body is struck for any amount of damage during the ten-day period when it is growing, it is destroyed and your soul passes on.
\par Conceivably, you could manifest }{\i mind switch }{to utilize a temporary body, but only an evil creature would smash his own temporarily empty storage crystal to permanently usurp a subject\rquote 
s organic body (unless the subject is itself irredeemably evil).
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Astral Traveler
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychoportation
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 1, psychic warrior 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ None
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 hour
\par }{\b Range:}{ Touch
\par }{\b Target:}{ Creature touched
\par }{\b Duration:}{ See text
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will negates (harmless)
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes (harmless)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par This power allows you or a creature you touch to participate in an astral caravan created through use of the }{\i astral caravan }{power. While participating in a journey allowed by the }{\i astral caravan }{
power, you must hold the hand of both your fellow passenger ahead of you (or the caravan leader) and your fellow passenger behind you (unl
ess you happen to be the last in the hand-linked line). If you or any one of your fellow passengers breaks the hand-to-hand link for 2 consecutive rounds, the impetus through the Astral Plane provided by }{\i astral caravan }{fails. See the }{\i 
astral caravan }{power for more information.
\par All those who are part of the caravan who are capable of performing purely mental actions, such as manifesting a power, may do so while maintaining hand-to-hand contact with their fellow travelers. When astral travelers begin their jou
rney, each one is connected to the Material Plane by an insubstantial silvery cord. Very few weapons exist that can damage a silvery cord.
\par The last creature in the line of those making up the caravan is sometimes referred to as the rear guard, because he o
r she has one hand free and can use it to wield a weapon without relinquishing his or her grip on the next traveler in line. The weightless, subjective environment of the Astral Plane allows the caravan to flex and bend as necessary to bring the rear guar
d\rquote s weapon to bear.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Attraction
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy (Charm) [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b Target:}{ One creature
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 hour/level
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will negates
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par You plant a compelling attraction in the mind of the subject. The attraction can be toward a particular person or an object. The subject will take reasonable steps to meet, get close to, attend, or find the object of its i
mplanted attraction. For the purpose of this power, \'93reasonable\'94 means that, while attracted, the subject doesn\rquote t suffer from blind obsession. He will act on this attraction only when not engaged in combat. The subject won\rquote 
t perform obviously suicidal actions. He can still recognize danger but will not flee unless the threat is immediate. If you make the subject feel an attraction to yourself, you can\rquote 
t command him indiscriminately, although he will be willing to listen to you (even if he disagrees). This power grants you a +4 bonus on any interaction checks you make involving the subject (such as Bluff, Diplomacy, Intimidate, and Sense Motive).
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every 2 additional power points you spend, this power\rquote s save DC increases by 1 and the bonus on interaction checks increases by 1.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Aura Alteration
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 6
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./ level)
\par }{\b Target:}{ One willing creature
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 10 min./level or instantaneous; see text
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 11
\par You can use this power in one of two ways: to disguise the subject\rquote s aura (alignment) and level, or to remove a compulsion or charm effect from the subject.
\par }{\i Disguise: }{If you use this power to disguise the subject\rquote s alignment and level, the power has a duration of 10 minutes per level. You can change the subject\rquote s alignment by only one step. You can adjust the subject\rquote 
s apparent level up or down by a number equal to one-half your own level (rounded down) or less.
\par }{\i Remove Compulsion: }{If you use this power to attempt to cleanse the subject\rquote s aura of a baleful or controlling effect, the duration is instantaneous. This power can remove the compulsion of a curse or a }{\i geas/quest }{
effect. It can also negate any charm and compulsion powers of 6th level or lower, such as }{\i crisis of breath }{or }{\i death urge. }{When }{\i aura alteration }{
is manifested for this purpose, the subject gains another saving throw to remove the compulsion afflicting it against the original save DC, but with a +2 bonus.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ You can augment this power in one or both of the following ways.
\par 1. For every additional power point you spend, the duration of the disguise aura increases by 10 minutes.
\par 2. If you spend 2 additional power points, the subject\rquote s alignment shifts an additional step; if you spend 4 additional power points, the subject\rquote s alignment changes to its opposite.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Aura Sight
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 4
\par }{\b Display:}{ Visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ 60 ft.
\par }{\b Area:}{ Cone-shaped emanation centered on you
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Concentration, up to 10 min./level
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ No
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 7
\par You discern auras. Auras are invisible to the naked eye, but to a psionic viewer manifesting this power they appear as glowing halos or envelopes of color
ed light that surround all objects. The color of each aura reveals information to the psionic character. The amount of information revealed depends on how long you study a
\par particular area.
\par }{\i 1st Round: }{Presence of good and evil auras in the area. You can\rquote t p
in an aura to a particular object or individual at this stage; instead, you see a colored haze suffusing the area. (This power can detect lawful and chaotic auras as well, but doing so requires a separate manifestation that focuses only on that alignment 
axis.)
\par }{\i 2nd Round: }{Number of auras (creatures, objects, powers, or spells) in the area. You know how many auras are in the area, even though each aura doesn\rquote t resolve to its actual location quite yet.
\par }{\i 3rd Round: }{The owner of each aura is revealed, unless the
 individual is outside your line of sight. If a creature whose aura you detect has 5 or more Hit Dice than you do, you are overwhelmed by its presence and dazed for 1 round, and the power ends.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every 2 additional power points you spend, this power\rquote s range increases by 5 feet.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Aversion
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Telepath 2
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory and material
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b Target:}{ One creature
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 hour/level
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will negates
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 3
\par You plant a powerful aversion in the mind of the subject. If the object of the implanted aversion is an individual or a physical object, she will prefer not to approach within 30 feet of it. If i
t is a word, she will try not to utter it; if it is an action, she will not willingly attempt to perform it; and if it is an event, she will not willingly attend it. The subject will take reasonable steps to avoid the object of its aversion, but will not 
put herself in jeopardy by doing so.
\par If the subject is forced into taking an action she has an aversion to, she takes a \endash 2 penalty on any attack rolls, ability checks, or skill checks involved.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every 2 additional power points you spend, this power\rquote s save DC increases by 1 and the duration increases by 1 hour.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Baleful Teleport
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychoportation (Teleportation)
\par }{\b Level:}{ Nomad 5
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material and visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b Target:}{ One corporeal creature
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Fortitude half
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 9
\par You psychoportively disperse minuscule portions of the subject, dealing 9d6 points of damage. Targets can be protected from the effects of }{\i baleful teleport }{by }{\i dimensional anchor}{.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every additional power point you spend, this power\rquote s damage increases by 1d6 points. For each extra 2d6 points of damage, this power\rquote s save DC increases by 1 and your manifester level increases by 1 for the purpose of 
overcoming power resistance.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Banishment, Psionic
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychoportation
\par }{\b Level:}{ Nomad 6
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory and material
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b Targets:}{ One or more extraplanar creatures, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will negates
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 11
\par As the }{\i banishment }{spell, except as noted here. 
\par Psions gain no benefit from presenting objects or substances that the target hates, fears, or otherwise opposes.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every 2 additional power points you spend, this power\rquote s save DC increases by 1 and your manifester level increases by 1 for the purpose of overcoming power resistance.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Bend Reality
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 8
\par }{\b Display:}{ Visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ See text
\par }{\b Target, Effect, or Area:}{ See text
\par }{\b Duration:}{ See text
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None; see text
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 15, XP
\par }{\i Bend reality }{lets you create nearly any type of effect. For example, }{\i bend reality }{can do any of the following:
\par \bullet  Duplicate any psion power of 6th level or lower, provided the power is not of a discipline prohibited to you.
\par \bullet  Duplicate any other power (but not a spell) of 5th level or lower, provided the power is not of a discipline prohibited to you.
\par \bullet  Duplicate any psion power of 5th level or lower, even if it\rquote s of a prohibited discipline.
\par \bullet  Duplicate any other power (but not a spell) of 4th level or lower, even if it\rquote s of a prohibited discipline.
\par \bullet  Undo the harmful effects of many powers, such as }{\i psionic dominate, geas/quest, }{or }{\i insanity}{.
\par \bullet  Produce any other effect whose power level is in line with the above effects, such as a single creature automatically hitting on its next attack or taking a \endash 8 penalty on its next saving throw. 
\par A duplicated power allows saving throws and power resistance as normal (but the save DC is for a 8th-level power).
\par When }{\i bend reality }{duplicates a power that has an XP cost, you must pay that cost or 300 XP, whichever is more. When }{\i bend reality }{dupli
cates a spell with a material component, you must pay additional XP equal to the value of the material component divided by 5.
\par }{\i XP Cost: }{300 XP or more (see above).
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Bestow Power
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 2
\par }{\b Display:}{ Mental
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ 20 ft.
\par }{\b Target:}{ One psionic creature
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ No
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 3
\par You link your mind with another psionic creature\rquote s mind, creating a brief conduit through which mental energy 
can be shared. When you manifest this power, the subject gains up to 2 power points. You can transfer only as many power points to a subject as it has manifester levels.
\par Because of the intimate nature of this power, it cannot be fabricated into a psionic item\emdash only power points generated by a psionic creature in the moment can be shared using }{\i bestow power}{.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every 3 additional power points you spend, the subject gains 2 additional power points.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Biofeedback
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 2, psychic warrior 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material and visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 min./level (D)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ Psion/wilder 3, psychic warrior 1
\par You can toughen your body against wounds, lessening their impact. During the duration of this power, you gain damage reduction 2/\endash .
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every 3 additional power points you spend, your damage reduction increases by 1.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Bite of the Wolf
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psychic warrior 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Visual; see text
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 min./level
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par Your posture becomes stooped forward, and you grow a muzzle complete with fangs. You gain one bite attack each round, instead of or in addition to any other attacks yo
u have, that deals 1d8 points of damage (assuming you are a Medium creature) when it hits.
\par Your bite attack is a natural weapon, so you are considered armed when attacking with it, and it can be affected by powers, spells, and effects that enhance or impro
ve natural weapons. You can choose to deal nonlethal damage with your bite, taking the standard \endash 
4 penalty on your attack roll. If you bite as your only attack, you use your highest base attack bonus on the attack roll, and you can apply your full Strength
 bonus to damage. If you bite in addition to making other attacks, the bite is a secondary attack.
\par If you are not a Medium creature, your bite attack\rquote s base damage varies as follows: Fine 1d2, Diminutive 1d3, Tiny 1d4, Small 1d6, Large 2d6, Huge 2d8, Gargantuan 4d6, Colossal 6d6.
\par Based on your psychic warrior level, your bite increases in ferocity as noted here: at 5th level your bite deals an extra 1d8 points of damage, at 10th level an extra 2d8, at 15th level an extra 3d8, and at 20th level an extra 4d8 points.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Body Adjustment
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism (Healing)
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 3, psychic warrior 2
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory and material
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 round
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ Psion/wilder 5, psychic warrior 3
\par You take control of your body\rquote s healing process, curing yourself of 1d12 points of damage. As usual, when regular damage is healed, an equal amount of nonlethal damage is also healed.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every 2 additional power points you spend, this power heals an additional 1d12 points of damage.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Body Equilibrium
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 2, psychic warrior 2
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material and visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 10 min./level (D)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 3
\par You can adjust your body\rquote s equilibrium to correspond with any solid or liquid that you stand on. Thus, you can walk on water, quicksand, or even a spider\rquote 
s web without sinking or breaking through (this effect does not confer any resistance to particularly sticky webs). You can move at your normal speed, but you cannot run (x4 speed) on an unfirm surface without sinking or breaking through.
\par If you fall from any height while using this power, damage from the impact is halved.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Body Purification
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism (Healing)
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 3, psychic warrior 2
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory and material
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 round
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ Psion/wilder 5, psychic warrior 3
\par You restore up to 2 points of damage to a single ability score. You cannot use }{\i body purification }{to heal ability drain.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every additional power point you spend, this power heals 1 additional point of damage to the same ability score.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Bolt
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Metacreativity (Creation)
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ 0 ft.
\par }{\b Effect:}{ A normal bolt, arrow, or sling bullet
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 min./level
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ No
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par You create 2d4 ectoplasmic crossbow bolts, arrows, or sling bullets, appropr
iate to your size, which dissipate into their constituent ectoplasmic particles when the duration ends or after being fired. Ammunition you create has a +1 enhancement bonus on attack rolls and damage rolls.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every 3 additional power points you spend, this power improves the ammunition\rquote s enhancement bonus on attack rolls and damage rolls by 1.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Brain Lock
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Telepath 2
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material and visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./ level)
\par }{\b Target:}{ One humanoid
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Concentration + 1 round
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will negates
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 3
\par The subject\rquote s higher mind is locked away. He stands dazed, unable to take any psionic actions (including manifesting powers or using psionic feats that require a decision to be used) nor any mental actions at all.
\par A }{\i brain locked }{subject is not stunned, so attackers get no special advantage against him.
\par A }{\i brain locked }{flyer must descend to the closest safe level area below it. An air-breathing swimmer must make for the surface.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ You can augment this power in one or both of the following ways.
\par 1. If you spend 2 additional power points, this power can also affect an animal, fey, giant, magical beast, or monstrous humanoid.
\par 2. If you spend 4 additional power points, this power can also affect an aberration, dragon, elemental, or outsider in addition to the creature types mentioned above.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Breath of the Black Dragon
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism [Acid]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 6, psychic warrior 6
\par }{\b Display:}{ Visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b Area:}{ Cone-shaped burst centered on you
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Reflex half
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 11
\par Your mouth spews forth vitriolic acid that deals 11d6 points of acid damage to any targets in the area.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every additional power point you spend, this power\rquote s damage increases by 1d6 points.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Burst
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychoportation
\par }{\b Level:}{ Nomad 1, psychic warrior 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 swift action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 round
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par This power increases your land speed by 10 feet. (This adjustment counts as an enhancement bonus to speed.)
\par You can manifest this power with an instant thought, qu
ickly enough to gain the benefit of the power on your turn before you move. Manifesting this power is a swift action, like manifesting a quickened power, and it counts toward the normal limit of one quickened power per round. You cannot manifest this powe
r when it isn\rquote t your turn.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Call to Mind
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Mental
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 minute
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par By meditating on a subject, you can recall natural memories and knowledge otherwise inaccessible to you.
\par On a failed Knowledge check, you can manifest this power to gain a new check with a +4 competence bonus. If successful, you instantly recall what was previously buried in your subconscious.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Call Weaponry
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychoportation (Teleportation)
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psychic warrior 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 round
\par }{\b Range:}{ 0 ft.
\par }{\b Effect:}{ One weapon; see text
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 min./level; see text (D)
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ No
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par You call a weapon \'93from thin air\'94 into your waiting hand (actually, it is a real weapon hailing from another location in space and time). You don\rquote t have to see or know of a weapon to call it\emdash in fact, you can\rquote 
t call a specific weapon; you just specify the kind. If you call a pro
jectile weapon, it comes with 3d6 nonmagical bolts, arrows, or sling bullets, as appropriate. The weapon is made of ordinary materials as appropriate for its kind. If you relinquish your grip on the weapon you called for 2 or more consecutive rounds, it a
utomatically returns to wherever it originated.
\par Weapons gained by }{\i call weaponry }{are distinctive due to their astral glimmer. They are considered magic weapons and thus are effective against damage reduction that requires a magic weapon to overcome.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every 4 additional power points you spend, this power improves the weapon\rquote s enhancement bonus on attack rolls and damage rolls by 1.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Catapsi
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 5, psychic warrior 5
\par }{\b Display:}{ Mental and visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ 30 ft.
\par }{\b Area:}{ 30-ft.-radius emanation centered on you
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 round/level
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will negates; see text
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 9
\par By manifesting this power, you generate psychic static, interfering with the ability of other psionic characters to manifest their powers or use psi-like abilities (you are not affected by your own }{\i catapsi }{
manifestation). All psionic activity within the area requires 4 more power points to manifest than normal, unless a character
 makes a Will save each time he attempts to manifest a power. Using a psi-like ability becomes a full-round action, instead of a standard action, in a }{\i catapsi }{field. If two or more fields of }{\i catapsi }{overlap, the effects are not cumulative.

\par The limit on the
 number of power points a subject can spend on a power remains in effect; thus, a subject may not be able to manifest its highest-level powers. If manifesting a power would cause the manifester to exceed his available power points or his spending limits, 
the manifestation fails automatically, but no power points are expended.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every 4 additional power points you spend, this power\rquote s range and the radius of its area both increase by 5 feet.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Catfall
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychoportation
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 1, psychic warrior 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 immediate action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Until landing or 1 round/ level
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par You recover instantly from a fall and can absorb some damage from falling. You land on your feet no matter
 how far you fall, and you take damage as if the fall were 10 feet shorter than it actually is. This power affects you and anything you carry or hold (up to your maximum load). You can manifest this power with an instant thought, quickly enough to gain th
e benefit of the power while you fall. Manifesting the power is an immediate action, like manifesting a quickened power, and it counts toward the normal limit of one quickened power per round. You can manifest this power even when it isn\rquote 
t your turn.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every additional power point you spend, this power reduces your damage as if the fall were an additional 10 feet shorter.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Chameleon
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism
\par }{\b Level:}{ Egoist 2, psychic warrior 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Olfactory
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 10 min./level (D)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par Your skin and equipment take on the color and texture of nearby objects, including floors and walls. You receive a +10 enhancement bonus on Hide checks.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Charm, Psionic
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy (Charm) [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Telepath 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Mental
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b Target:}{ One humanoid
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 hour/level
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will negates
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par As the }{\i charm person }{spell, except as noted here.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ You can augment this power in one or more of the following ways.
\par 1. If you spend 2 additional power points, this power can also affect an animal, fey, giant, magical beast, or monstrous humanoid.
\par 2. If you spend 4 additional power points, this power can also affect an aberration, dragon, elemental, or outsider in addition to the creature types mentioned above.
\par 3. If you spend 4 additional power points, this power\rquote s duration increases to one day per level.
\par In addition, for every 2 additional power points you spend to achieve any of these effects, this power\rquote s save DC increases by 1.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairtangent Hand
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience (Scrying)
\par }{\b Level:}{ Seer 5
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory, mental, and visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ See text
\par }{\b Area:}{ See text
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Up to 1 min./level; see text (D)
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ No
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 9
\par You can emulate a }{\i far hand }{effect at any distance while simultaneously emulating }{\i clairvoyant sense }{to target your }{\i far hand; }{see the appropriate power descriptions. }{\i Clairtangent hand}{\rquote 
s duration is up to 1 minute per level when used with a }{\i far hand }{effect.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ If you spend 8 additional power points, you can emulate }{\i clairvoyant sense }{in conjunction with either }{\i telekinetic force, telekinetic maneuver, }{or }{\i telekinetic thrust, }{but this power\rquote 
s duration expires as soon as any of the noted telekinetic powers deals damage.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairvoyant Sense
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience (Scrying)
\par }{\b Level:}{ Seer 2
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory and visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ See text
\par }{\b Effect:}{ Psionic sensor
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 min./level (D)
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ No
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 3
\par You can see and hear a distant location almost as if you were there. You don\rquote t need line of sight or line of effect, but the locale must be known\emdash 
a place familiar to you or an obvious one, such as behind a door, around a corner, or in a grove of trees. Once you have selected the locale, the focus of your }{\i clairvoyant sense }{doesn\rquote 
t move, but you can rotate it in all directions to view the area as desired. Unlike other scrying powers, this power does not allow psionically or supernaturally enhanced senses to work through it.
\par If the chosen locale is magically or psionically dark, you see nothing. If it is naturally pitch black, you can see in a 10- foot radius around the center of the power\rquote 
s effect or out to the extent of your natural darkvision. The power does not work across planes.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Claw of Energy
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychokinesis [see text]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psychic warrior 4
\par }{\b Display:}{ Visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 round/level
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 7
\par If you have a claw attack (either from an actual natural weapon or from an effect such as }{\i claws of the beast}{), you can use this power to energize that weapon. The claw attack deals an ex
tra 1d6 points of cold, electricity, or fire damage (as chosen by you at the time of manifestation) on a successful hit. On a critical hit, it deals an extra 1d10 points of energy damage. If the claw\rquote 
s critical multiplier is x3, add 2d10 points of energy damage instead; if the multiplier is x4, add 3d10 points of energy damage.
\par This power can be manifested on a claw attack that already deals energy damage, but if the claw already deals the same type of damage as the power, the effects stack. If this power i
s manifested on a claw attack already benefiting from the effect of the power, the newer manifestation supersedes the older manifestation, even if both manifestations are of different energy types.
\par This power\rquote s subtype is the same as the type of energy infused in the natural weapon.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Claws of the Beast
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psychic warrior 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 swift action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 hour/level
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ see text
\par You call forth the aggressive nature of the
 beast inherent in yourself, psionically transforming your hands into deadly claws. You gain two natural attacks with your claws, each dealing 1d4 points of damage (1d6 if you are Large, or 1d3 if you are Small) plus your Strength bonus.
\par Your claws are natural weapons, so you are considered armed when attacking with them, and they can be affected by powers, spells, and effects that enhance or improve natural. You can choose to deal nonlethal damage with your claws, taking the standard 
\endash 4 penalty on your attack roll.
\par Your claws work just like the natural weapons of many monsters. You can make an attack with one claw or a full attack with two claws at your normal attack bonus, replacing your normal attack routine. You take no penalties for two-weapon fighting,
 and neither attack is a secondary attack. If your base attack bonus is +6 or higher, you do not gain any additional attacks\emdash you simply have two claw attacks at your normal attack bonus.
\par You can manifest this power with an instant thought, quickly enough t
o gain the benefit of the power on your turn before you attack. Manifesting this power is a swift action, like manifesting a quickened power, and it counts toward the normal limit of one quickened power per round. You cannot manifest this power when it is
n\rquote t your turn.
\par You can call or dismiss the claws as a swift action during the duration of the power. If you attack with a manufactured weapon or another natural attack, you can\rquote t make any claw attacks in that round. You can still hold and manipulate items w
ith your claws or cast spells just as well as you could with your hands.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ If you spend additional power points, you can create larger, sharper, and more deadly claws, as shown on the table below.
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvmgf\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth888 \cellx780\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2571 \cellx3351\pard\plain \s3\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Power Points}{\b0 \cell }{Claw Damage\cell }\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvmgf\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth888 \cellx780\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2571 \cellx3351\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvmrg\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth888 \cellx780\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth805 \cellx1585\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1039 \cellx2624\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3351\pard\plain 
\s3\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cell Small\cell Medium\cell Large\cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvmrg\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth888 \cellx780\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth805 \cellx1585\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1039 \cellx2624\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3351\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth888 \cellx780\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth805 \cellx1585\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1039 
\cellx2624\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3351\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1\cell 1d3\cell 1d4\cell 1d6\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth888 \cellx780\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth805 \cellx1585\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1039 \cellx2624\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3351\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {3\cell 1d4\cell 1d6\cell 1d8\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth888 \cellx780\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth805 \cellx1585\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1039 \cellx2624\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx3351\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {5\cell 1d6\cell 1d8\cell 2d6\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth888 \cellx780\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth805 
\cellx1585\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1039 \cellx2624\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3351\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {7\cell 1d8\cell 2d6\cell 3d6\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth888 \cellx780\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth805 
\cellx1585\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1039 \cellx2624\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3351\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {11\cell 2d6\cell 3d6\cell 4d6\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth888 \cellx780\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth805 
\cellx1585\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1039 \cellx2624\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3351\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {15\cell 3d6\cell 4d6\cell 5d6\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth888 \cellx780\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth805 
\cellx1585\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1039 \cellx2624\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3351\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth888 \cellx780\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth805 \cellx1585\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1039 \cellx2624\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3351\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {19\cell 4d6\cell 5d6\cell 6d6\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth888 \cellx780\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth805 \cellx1585\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1039 \cellx2624\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx3351\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Claws of the Vampire
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psychic warrior 3
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material and visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 round/level
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 5
\par If you have a claw attack (either from an actual natural weapon or from an effect such as }{\i claws of the beast}{), you can use this power to change the nature of that weapon. When this power is manifested, your claws
 take on an ominous glimmer. Each time you make a successful claw attack against a living creature of Small or larger size, you are healed of some amount of damage.
\par You heal a number of hit points equal to half the base damage dealt by your }{\i claws of the vampire, }{
rounded down (additional damage dealt because of a high Strength score or other enhancements does not count toward the amount you heal). You heal as many hit points as can be gained while the creature remains at 1 hit point or higher. Any damage tha
t would reduce the creature to 0 or fewer hit points does not benefit you.
\par You do not heal damage if your attack deals nonlethal damage, such as when you attack a creature that has the regeneration ability. Moreover, you gain no healing from attacking any creature that is under the effect of }{\i biofeedback}{. Using }{\i 
fission }{on yourself and then attacking your duplicate also fails to grant any healing.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Cloud Mind
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 2
\par }{\b Display:}{ None
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Close (25 ft. +5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b Target:}{ One creature
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 min./level
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will negates
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 3
\par You make yourself completely undetectable to the subject by erasing all awareness of your presence from its mind. This power has the following effects.
\par First, you are invisible and inaudible to the creature. It cannot even detect your presence by means of blindsense, blindsight, scent, or tremorsense. It cannot pinpoint your location by any means.
\par Second, the subject remains unaware of your actions, provided you do not make any attacks or cause any obvious or directly threatening changes in the subject\rquote s environment. If you attack the subject creature, the effect ends.
\par If you take an action that creates a sustained and obvious change in the subject\rquote s environment\emdash for example, attacking a creature aside from the subject or moving a large or attended object the subject can see\emdash 
the subject immediately gains a new saving throw against the power. An ally of the subject creature that is able to see or perceive you can use a move action to warn the subject and thereby grant it a new saving throw.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Cloud Mind, Mass
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 6
\par }{\b Target:}{ One creature/level
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 11
\par As }{\i cloud mind, }{except as noted above. Each creature is affected individually.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Compression
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psychic warrior 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Olfactory
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 round/level (D)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par This power causes instant diminution, halving your height, length, and width and dividing your weight by 8. This decrease changes your size category to the next smaller one. You gain a +2 size bonus to Dexterity, a \endash 
2 size penalty to Strength (to a minimum effective Stren
gth score of 1), a +1 size bonus on attack rolls, and a +1 size bonus to Armor Class due to your reduced size. If your new size is Tiny, you have a space of 2 1/2 feet and a natural reach of 0 feet (meaning that you must enter an opponent\rquote 
s square to attack). If your new size is Diminutive, you have a space of 1 foot and a natural reach of 0 feet. This power doesn\rquote t change your speed. 
\par All your equipment, worn or carried, is similarly reduced by the power. Melee and projectile weapons deal less damage. Othe
r psionic or magical properties are not affected by this power. Any affected item that leaves your possession (including a projectile or thrown weapon) instantly returns to its normal size. This means that thrown weapons deal their normal damage (projecti
les deal damage based on the size of the weapon that fired them). Multiple effects that reduce size do not stack, which means (among other things) that you can\rquote t use a second manifestation of this power to further reduce yourself.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ You can augment this power in one or more of the following ways.
\par 1. If you spend 6 additional power points, this power decreases your size by two size categories. You gain a +4 size bonus to Dexterity, a \endash 4 size penalty to Strength (to a minimum effective Strength score of
 1), a +2 size bonus on attack rolls, and a +2 size bonus to Armor Class due to your reduced size.
\par 2. If you spend 6 additional power points, you can manifest this power as a swift action instead of a standard action.
\par 3. If you spend 2 additional power points, this power\rquote s duration is 1 minute per level rather than 1 round per level.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conceal Thoughts
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 1, psychic warrior 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Mental
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b Target:}{ One willing creature
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 hour/level
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will negates (harmless)
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes (harmless)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par You protect the subject\rquote s thoughts from analysis. While the duration lasts, the subject gains a +10 circumstance bon
us on Bluff checks against those attempting to discern its true intentions with Sense Motive. It also gains a +4 bonus on its saving throw against any power or spell used to read its mind (such as }{\i read thoughts }{or }{\i mind probe}{).
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Concealing Amorpha
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Metacreativity (Creation)
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 2, psychic warrior 2
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material; see text
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ 0 ft.
\par }{\b Effect:}{ Quasi-real amorphous film centered on you
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 min./level (D)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 3
\par Using }{\i concealing amorpha, }{yo
u weave a quasi-real membrane around yourself. You remain visible within the translucent, amorphous enclosure. This distortion grants you concealment (opponents have a 20% miss chance), thanks to the rippling membrane encasing your form. You can pick up o
r drop objects, easily reaching through the film. Anything you hold is enveloped by the amorpha. Likewise, you can engage in melee, make ranged attacks, and manifest powers without hindrance.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Concealing Amorpha, Greater
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Metacreativity (Creation)
\par }{\b Level:}{ Shaper 3, psychic warrior 3
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 round/level (D)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 5
\par As }{\i concealing amorpha}{, except the quasi-real membrane so distorts your image and actual position that you gain total concealment (opponents have a 50% miss chance), but for a shorter period of time.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Concussion Blast
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychokinesis [Force]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 2
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./ level)
\par }{\b Target:}{ One creature or object
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 3
\par A subject you select is pummeled with telekinetic force for 1d6 points of force damage. You can choose to have the power deal an equal amount of nonlethal damage instead. }{\i Concussion blast }{always affects a subject within range that y
ou can see, even if the subject is in melee or has cover or concealment (you cannot use this power against creatures with total cover or total concealment).
\par Nonmagical, unattended objects (including doors, walls, locks, and so on) may also be damaged by this power.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ You can augment this power in one or both of the following ways.
\par 1. For every 2 additional power points you spend, this power\rquote s damage increases by 1d6 points.
\par 2. For every 2 additional power points you spend, this power can affect an additional target. Any additional target cannot be more than 15 feet from another target of the power.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Contingency, Psionic
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 6
\par }{\b Display:}{ Olfactory
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 10 minutes or longer; see text
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ One day/level (D) or until discharged
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 11, XP
\par You can place another power upon your person so that it comes into effect under some condition you dictate when manifesting }{\i psionic contingency}{. The }{\i psionic contingency }{power and the comp
anion power are manifest at the same time. The 10-minute manifesting time is the minimum total for both manifestations; if the companion power has a manifesting time longer than 10 minutes, use that instead. The power to be brought into effect by the }{
\i psionic contingency }{must be one that affects your person and be of a power level no higher than one-third your manifester level (rounded down, maximum 6th level).
\par The conditions needed to bring the power into effect must be clear, although they can be general. In all cases, the }{\i psionic contingency }{immediately brings into effect the companion power, the latter being \'93manifested\'94
 instantaneously only when the prescribed circumstances occur. If complicated or convoluted conditions are prescribed, the power combination (}{\i psionic contingency }{and the companion power) may fail when called on.
\par You can use only one }{\i psionic contingency }{companion power at a time; if a second is manifested, the first one (if still active) is dismissed.
\par }{\i XP Cost: }{15 XP.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Control Air
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychokinesis
\par }{\b Level:}{ Kineticist 2
\par }{\b Display:}{ Mental
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level)
\par }{\b Area:}{ 50-ft.-radius spread
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Concentration, up to 1 min./level
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ No
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 3
\par You have some control over wind speed and direction. The speed of the wind within the area of this power can be increased or decreased by up to 10 miles per hour.
\par You can spend as many as 5 additional power points to augment this power, with each point allowing you to modify the wind speed by an additional 10 miles per hour, to a maximum change in wind speed of 60 miles per hour.
\par This power also gives you the ability to alter the direction of the wind by as much as 90 degrees.
\par Powerful enough winds can cause creatures to be blown away, knocked down, or checked.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ See above.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Control Body
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychokinesis
\par }{\b Level:}{ Kineticist 4
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b Target:}{ One Medium or smaller creature with humanoid physiology
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Concentration, up to 1 min./level
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Fortitude negates
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 7
\par You psychokinetically control the actions of any humanoid (including undead or outsiders with a humanoid physiology) that is within range and to which you have line of sight. }{\i Control body }{doesn\rquote 
t require mental contact with the subject, since you are actually forcing limb movements independent of the target\rquote s mind. You can force the subject to stand up, sit down, walk, turn around, and s
o on, but operating the vocal cords is too difficult. You can also hold the subject immobile, rendering it helpless. You cannot force the subject to manifest powers, cast spells, or use any special ability that is not a function of just its body movements
. If you lose line of sight to the subject, the effect of this power ends.
\par If you force the subject to engage in combat, its attack bonus is equal to your base attack bonus + your Intelligence bonus, and its bonus on damage rolls is equal to your Intelligen
ce bonus. A subject of this power cannot make attacks of opportunity. The subject gains no benefit to Armor Class from its Dexterity, but it does gain a bonus to its AC equal to your Intelligence bonus.
\par Although the subject\rquote s body is under your control, the subject\rquote s mind is not. Creatures capable of taking purely mental actions (such as manifesting powers) can do so.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every 2 additional power points you spend, this power can affect a target one size category larger.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Control Flames
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychokinesis [Fire]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b Area:}{ One nonmagical fire source; see text
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Concentration, up to 1 min./level
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ See text
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ No
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par You pyrokinetically control the intensity or movements of one fire source. A nonmagical fire source can be controlled if it is equal to or smaller than the maximum size of fire you can control according to your manifester level, as noted on 
the accompanying table. You can freely switch control between fire sources, or change the nature of your control, while you maintain concentration, but only one specified change (keeping a fire burning, animating it, or altering its size) can be made to o
n
e fire source in a round. When your control over a fire source lapses, that fire immediately returns to its original state (or goes out if it has no fuel or has been moved away from its original location). With this power, you can artificially keep a fire
 
burning that would normally expire for lack of fuel; even dousing a controlled flame with water does not put it out (though completely submerging the flame would). Normally, a creature at risk of catching on fire can avoid this fate by making a DC 15 Refl
ex saving throw, with success indicating that the fire has gone out. If the fire is one that has been kept burning by the use of }{\i control flames, }{then the DC of the Reflex save needed to put out the flames increases to 25.
\par This power also enables you to make
 a fire move as if it were a living creature. You can animate only a naturally burning fire; if you attempt to animate one that has been increased or decreased in size by your augmentation of this power, the fire immediately returns to its original size. 
An animated fire moves at a speed of 30 feet. A fire that moves away from its fuel or its original location dies as soon as your control over it lapses. 
\par An animated fire can enter any square, even if a creature already occupies it. If an animated fire ente
rs a square occupied by a creature, that creature can make a Reflex save to get out of the way (DC 11 + the number of dice of damage the fire does + your Int modifier if you are a psion or your Cha modifier if you are a wilder). A successful Reflex save m
oves the creature to the nearest unoccupied square. The flames deal the indicated damage to any creature that is either on fire or surrounded by the flames (in the fire\rquote s space); see the accompanying table).
\par At the start of your turn, the animated fire deal
s damage to any creature in its space, and the creature catches on fire unless it makes a Reflex save (DC as noted above). A victim on fire takes 1d6 points of damage each round. Additional rounds in the same space as the animated fire occupies mean addit
i
onal chances of ignition. The damage from multiple normal fires stacks, but the victim gets a saving throw each round to negate each fire. It is possible to switch control from the animated fire (causing it to disappear) to intensify f lames that are alre
ady burning (thus denying the foe Ref lex saves after the first).
\par }{\b 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8683\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b 
Control Flames\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8683\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx1558\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2707\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4151\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1933 \cellx6084\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2599 \cellx8683\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b Manifester }{\b Level \cell Fire Size \cell Example 
\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b Maximum Damage}{\b  per Round\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b Space\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b 
\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1558\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2707\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4151\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1933 \cellx6084\clvertalb\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2599 \cellx8683\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2707\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4151\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1933 \cellx6084\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2599 \cellx8683\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1st\endash 2nd
\cell Fine\cell Tindertwig\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1 foot square\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2707\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4151\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1933 \cellx6084\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2599 \cellx8683\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {3rd\endash 4th\cell Diminutive\cell Torch\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1d3\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1 foot square\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2707\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4151\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1933 \cellx6084\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2599 \cellx8683\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {5th\endash 6th\cell Tiny\cell Small campfire\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1d6\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1 foot square\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2707\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4151\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1933 \cellx6084\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2599 \cellx8683\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {7th\endash 8th\cell Small\cell Large campfire\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {2d6\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1 foot square\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2707\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4151\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1933 \cellx6084\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2599 \cellx8683\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {9th\endash 10th\cell Medium\cell Forge\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {3d6\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1 foot square\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2707\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4151\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1933 \cellx6084\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2599 \cellx8683\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {11th\endash 12th\cell Large\cell Bonfire\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {4d6\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {2-by-2-foot square\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2707\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4151\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1933 \cellx6084\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2599 \cellx8683\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {13th\endash 14th\cell Huge\cell Burning shack\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {5d6\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {3-by-3-foot square\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2707\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4151\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1933 \cellx6084\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2599 \cellx8683\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {15th\endash 16th\cell Gargantuan\cell Burning tavern\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {6d6\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {4-by-4-foot square\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2707\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4151\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1933 \cellx6084\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2599 \cellx8683\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2707\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4151\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1933 \cellx6084\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2599 \cellx8683\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {17th or higher\cell Colossal\cell Burning inn\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {7d6\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {5-by-5-foot square\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2707\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx4151\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1933 \cellx6084\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2599 \cellx8683\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b 
\par Augment:}{ You can augment this power in one or both of the following ways.
\par 1. For every 2 additional power points you spend, you can increase the size of a fire you want to control by one step, up to the maximum size of fire you can control according to your manifester level.
\par 2. For every 2 additional power points you spend, you can decrease the size of a fire you want to control by one step. You can reduce a Tiny or smaller fire to nothing, extinguishing it.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Control Light
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychokinesis [Light]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b Area:}{ Nine 10-ft. cubes + three 10-ft. cubes/level
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Concentration, up to 1 min./level, or 1 round; see text
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ No
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par By manipulating the ambient light level, you can decrease or increase the illumination of an area. The change in illumination can be gradual (taking as lon
g as 1 minute) or sudden (occurring immediately when you manifest this power). You can alter the level of illumination from its original level at any time during the power\rquote s duration.
\par }{\i Decrease: }{You can decrease the illumination of an area by as little as 5
% (barely perceptible) or as much as 100% (total darkness). If you decrease the light by 50% or more, the visual ability of creatures that depend on light to see declines accordingly.If you decrease the ambient light in an area by 100%, even those with lo
wlight vision are unable to see within the affected area. For each 25% decrease in ambient light, characters in the area gain a cumulative +1 circumstance bonus on Hide checks (to a maximum of +4 when all the light is gone).
\par }{\i Increase: }{You can increase the illumination of an area by as little as 5% (barely perceptible) or as much as 100%. If you increase the light by 50% or more, the visual ability of creatures that depend on light to see improves accordingly.
\par You can use this power to increase the illumination of an area by 200%  (improving visual abilities accordingly), but in such a case the power\rquote s duration is only 1 round.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Control Object
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychokinesis
\par }{\b Level:}{ Kineticist 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./ level)
\par }{\b Target:}{ One unattended object weighing up to 100 lb.
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Concentration, up to 1 round/level
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ No
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par You telekinetically \'93bring to life\'94 an inanimate object. Though it is not actually alive, th
e object moves under your control. Live vegetation cannot be controlled in this fashion, nor can already animated objects or undead. The controlled object moves like a puppet, with jerky and clumsy movements, at a speed of up to 20 feet. If its form is ri
gid, it makes creaking, groaning, or grating sounds as you control it.
\par A controlled object can attack an opponent if you direct it to do so. It has one slam attack, at a base attack bonus equal to your base attack bonus plus your Intelligence modifier. If t
he attack hits, it deals points of damage equal to 1d6 plus your Intelligence modifier. A controlled object has its usual hardness and hit points.
\par You can use this power on a nonmagical lock, making it move in such a way as to attempt to unlock itself. If 
another character makes an Open Lock check involving a lock that you are concentrating on controlling, the character gains a +4 bonus on the check.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Control Sound
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychokinesis [Sonic]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 2
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory; see text
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./ level)
\par }{\b Target:}{ One sound or mixture of related sounds
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Concentration, up to 1 min./level; see text
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ No
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 3
\par You shape and alter existing sounds. You can
 target one sound, such as a person speaking or singing, or a group of related sounds, such as the patter of many raindrops or the tramp of soldiers passing by. A sound as quiet as a snapping finger can be controlled. You can substitute any sound you have
 heard for the target sound. If you attempt to exactly duplicate the voice of a specific individual, or an inherently terrifying sound (such as a dragon\rquote 
s roar), you must succeed on a Bluff check with a +5 circumstance bonus opposed by the intended listener\rquote s Sense Motive check to avoid arousing suspicion.
\par You can entirely muffle a noise or magnify a sound to such loudness that it drowns out all other conversation in the immediate area. In this way, you can provide yourself or any with a +4 circumstance bonus on Move Silently and Listen checks.
\par Alternatively, you can use up the power in an instant. You do this by modulating a sound into a one-time destructive impetus that shatters nonmagical/nonpsionic, unattended objects of crystal, glass, ceramics, or porce
lain (vials, bottles, flasks, jugs, mirrors, and so forth) in the area.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Co-Opt Concentration
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 6
\par }{\b Display:}{ Mental
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./ level)
\par }{\b Target:}{ One creature
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Concentration, up to 1 round/level
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will negates
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 11
\par You take over control of a power that was manifested by the subject and that must be maintained through concentration. Once you wrest control of the power from the subject, you have
\par several options.
\par \bullet  Allow the power to function as normal.
\par \bullet  Keep the power targeted on the subject (if a personal power) but decide how the power fulfills its function each round.
\par \bullet  Retarget the power on yourself (if a personal power).
\par \bullet  Choose not to concentrate on the co-opted power in the next round, ending the power at that point.
\par When the duration of }{\i co-opt concentration }{expires, the power you took control of ends (even if this would mean that the power ends earlier than normal).
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Correspond
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 4
\par }{\b Display:}{ Mental
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 10 minutes
\par }{\b Range:}{ See text
\par }{\b Target:}{ One creature with an Intelligence score of 3 or higher
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 round/level
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ No
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 7
\par You forge a passive mental link with a creature with which you have previously had physical or mental contact. The subject need not be within sight or even on the same plane as you are. The subject recognizes you, and y
ou can mentally communicate with it for the duration (though nothing forces the subject to respond to you), exchanging messages of twenty-five words or less once per round. Receiving a message is not an action and does not provoke attacks of opportunity; 
however, sending a message is equivalent to a standard action that can provoke attacks of opportunity.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Create Sound
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Metacreativity (Creation) [Sonic]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory; see text
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b Effect:}{ Sounds; see text
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 round/level (D)
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ No
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par You create a volume of sound that rises, recedes, approaches, or remains at a fixed place. You choose what type of sound the pow
er creates when manifesting it and cannot thereafter change its basic character. The volume of sound created, however, depends on your level. You can produce as much noise as four normal humans per manifester level (maximum twenty humans). Thus, talking, 
s
inging, shouting, walking, marching, or running sounds can be created. The noise produced can be virtually any type of sound within the volume limit. A horde of rats running and squeaking is about the same volume as eight humans running and shouting. A ro
aring lion is equal to the noise from sixteen humans, while a roaring dire lion is equal to the noise from twenty humans.
\par If you wish to create a specific message, up to twenty-five words can be created, and those words repeat over and over until the durati
on expires or the power is dismissed. If you attempt to exactly duplicate the voice of a specific individual or an inherently terrifying sound (such as a dragon\rquote 
s roar), you must succeed on a Bluff check with a +2 circumstance bonus opposed by the listener\rquote s Sense Motive check to avoid arousing suspicion.
\par }{\i Create sound }{can be used to bring sounds into existence that you later manipulate by manifesting }{\i control sound.
\par }{
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Crisis of Breath
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Telepath 3
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./ level)
\par }{\b Target:}{ One breathing humanoid
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 round/level
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will negates, Fortitude partial; see text
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 5
\par You compel the subject to purge its entire store of air in one explosive exhalation, and thereby disrupt the subject\rquote s autonomic breathing cycle. The subject\rquote s lungs do not automatically function again while the power\rquote 
s duration lasts.
\par If the target succeeds on a Will save when }{\i crisis of breath }{is manifested, it is unaffected by this power. If it fails its Will save, it can still continue to breathe by taking a standard action in each round to gasp for breath.
\par An affected creature can attempt to take actions normally (instead of conscio
usly controlling its breathing), but each round it does so, beginning in the round when it failed its Will save, the subject risks blacking out from lack of oxygen. It must succeed on a Fortitude save at the end of any of its turns in which it did not con
sciously take a breath. The DC of this save increases by 1 in every consecutive round after the first one that goes by without a breath; the DC drops back to its original value if the subject spends an action to take a breath.
\par If a subject fails a Fortitude save, it is disabled (0 hp). In the following round, it drops to \endash 1 hit points and is dying. Curing powers or spells can revive a dying subject normally, so long as this power\rquote 
s duration has expired; if the power is still in effect, a revived creature is still subject to Fortitude saves in each round when it does not consciously breathe.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ You can augment this power in one or more of the following ways.
\par 1. If you spend 2 additional power points, this power can also affect an animal, fey, giant, magical beast, or monstrous humanoid.
\par 2. If you spend 4 additional power points, this power can also affect an aberration, dragon, elemental, or outsider in addition to the creature types mentioned above.
\par 3. If you spend 6 additional power points, this power can affect up to four creatures all within a 20-ft.-radius burst.
\par In addition, for every 2 additional power points you spend to achieve any of these effects, this power\rquote s save DC increases by 1.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Crisis of Life
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy [Mind-Affecting, Death]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Telepath 7
\par }{\b Display:}{ Mental
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./ level)
\par }{\b Target:}{ One creature
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Fortitude partial; see text
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 13
\par You interrupt the subject\rquote s autonomic heart rhythm, killing it instantly on a failed saving throw if it has 11 Hit Dice or less. If the target makes its saving throw or has more than 11 Hit Dice, it takes 7d6 points of damage.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every additional power point you spend, this power can kill a subject that has Hit Dice equal to 11 + the number of additional points.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Crystal Shard
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Metacreativity (Creation)
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory and material
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b Effect:}{ Ray
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ No
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par Upon manifesting this power, you propel a razor-sharp crystal shard at your target. You must succeed on a ranged touch attack with the ray to deal damage to a target. The ray deals 1d6 points of piercing damage.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every additional power point you spend, this power\rquote s damage increases by 1d6 points.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Crystallize
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Metacreativity
\par }{\b Level:}{ Shaper 6
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./ level)
\par }{\b Target:}{ One living creature
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Permanent
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Fortitude negates
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 11
\par You seed the subject\rquote s flesh with supersaturated crystal. In an eyeblink, the subject\rquote s form seems to freeze 
over, as its flesh and fluids are instantly crystallized. Following the application of this power, the subject appears lifeless. In fact, it is not dead (though no life can be detected with powers or spells that detect such).
\par This power has a chance of being dispelled only by a manifester of a higher level than you when you manifested this power. When the power is dispelled, crystal melts back into flesh, and the subject is in exactly the state he was prior being affected by }
{\i crystallize.}{
\par }}