{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f28\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f29\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f31\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f32\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f33\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f34\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f35\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f44\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f45\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f47\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f48\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f49\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}
{\f50\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f51\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{
\s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{\s5\qr \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 5;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar
\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Preformatted;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1171835036
\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-360\li1800\jclisttab\tx1800 }{\listname 
;}\listid-132}{\list\listtemplateid-1259283726\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 
\fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440 }{\listname ;}\listid-131}{\list\listtemplateid-205616708\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr
\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-360\li1080\jclisttab\tx1080 }{\listname ;}\listid-130}{\list\listtemplateid-2114025972\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0
{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid-129}{\list\listtemplateid316704552\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0
\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li1800\jclisttab\tx1800 }{\listname ;}\listid-128}{\list\listtemplateid-615348062
\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440 }
{\listname ;}\listid-127}{\list\listtemplateid-280570430\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 
\chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li1080\jclisttab\tx1080 }{\listname ;}\listid-126}{\list\listtemplateid1394099946\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid-125}{\list\listtemplateid104632372\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0
\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid-120}{\list\listtemplateid711635824\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23
\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid-119}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid-119\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid-125\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid-126\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid-127\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid-128
\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid-120\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid-129\listoverridecount0\ls7}{\listoverride\listid-130\listoverridecount0\ls8}{\listoverride\listid-131\listoverridecount0\ls9}{\listoverride\listid-132
\listoverridecount0\ls10}}{\*\revtbl {Unknown;}}{\info{\title This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1}{\author asmith}{\operator asmith}{\creatim\yr2004\mo4\dy7\hr11\min7}
{\revtim\yr2004\mo4\dy7\hr11\min7}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages26}{\nofwords12127}{\nofchars69129}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws84895}{\vern8229}}\margl1080\margr1080\margt1080\margb1080 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace78\dgvspace180\dghorigin1080\dgvorigin1080\dghshow2\dgvshow2
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 
This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{\f0\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {PSIONIC POWERS (G-P)
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par Genesis
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Metacreativity (Creation)
\par }{\b Level:}{ Shaper 9
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ One week (8 hours/day)
\par }{\b Range:}{ 180 ft.; see text
\par }{\b Effect:}{ A demiplane coterminous with the Astral Plane, centered on your location
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ No
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 17, XP
\par You create a finite plane with limited access: a demiplane. Demiplanes crea
ted by this power are very small, very minor planes. This power works best when manifested while you are on the Astral Plane. Manifestation of this power creates a local density fluctuation that precipitates the creation of a demiplane. At first, the fled
gling plane grows in radius at a rate of 1 foot per day to an initial maximum radius of 180 feet as it rapidly draws substance from the surrounding astral ectoplasm. Once the new demiplane reaches its maximum size, it doesn\rquote 
t really stop growing, but its growth rate decreases to only 1 foot per week (approximately a 50-foot increase in radius per year). Once your demiplane is created, you can travel to it using }{\i astral caravan}{, }{\i plane shift}{
, or some other power or permanent link that you arrange for separately.
\par You determine the environment within the demiplane when you manifest }{\i genesis, }{
reflecting most any desire you can visualize. You determine factors such as atmosphere, water, temperature, and the general shape of the terrain. This power cannot create life 
(including vegetation), nor can it create construction (such as buildings, roads, wells, dungeons, and so forth). You must add these details in some other fashion if you desire. You can\rquote 
t create lingering psionic effects with this power; you have to add those separately, if desired. Similarly, you can\rquote t create a demiplane out of esoteric material, such as silver or uranium; you\rquote re limited to stone and dirt. You can\rquote 
t manipulate the time trait on your demiplane; its time trait is as the Material Plane. Once your demiplane reaches 180 feet in radius, you can manifest this power again to gradually add another 180 feet of radius to it, and so on.
\par Antigenesis: If }{\i genesis }{is manifested on the Material Plane, the power takes effect and the demiplane begins to grow 
at the rate noted above, but it gets no larger than a radius of 1 foot per level. The energies of the new plane are exactly canceled by the energies of the original plane, creating a dead spot like a limited cancer on the original plane. The expanding bou
n
dary of the dead spot wipes away all construction, crumbles natural land forms, and evaporates water, leaving behind a uniformly level area of inert dust. Living creatures that pass the boundary of the growing dead spot are not directly affected, but plan
t
s can find no sustenance in the dust of the dead spot, water-breathing creatures die quickly when water turns to dust, and mobile animals know enough to leave the area alone. Once the wave of change passes, no special essence remains in the dead spot, and
 it may be colonized naturally over the course of several years by bacteria, plants, and animals.
\par }{\i XP Cost: }{1,000 XP.
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Graft Weapon
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psychic warrior 3
\par }{\b Display:}{ Olfactory
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 24 hours (D)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 5
\par You attach any melee weapon you can use in one hand\emdash mundane, psionic, or magical\emdash onto the end of one of your arms. The weapon becomes a natural extension of your arm, and that hand blends seamlessly into the shaft, hil
t, or head of the weapon. Now that the weapon and you are one, you gain a +1 competence bonus on all attack and damage rolls while using the weapon.
\par The grafted weapon is considered both a standard weapon and a natural weapon for the purpose of effects tha
t distinguish between either weapon type. For instance, the grafted weapon is treated as a natural weapon for the purpose of delivering a touch attack with a power in conjunction with the weapon attack. As with any power (or spell) melee touch attack made
 in conjunction with a natural weapon attack, the touch attack effect is not delivered unless the natural weapon strikes normally; on a failed attack, the touch power (or spell) is wasted.
\par For a psychic warrior under the effect of the }{\i claws of the beast }{power, grafting a weapon means that attacks with this hand deal the base damage of the weapon, instead of the claw upon which a psychic warrior normally relies.
\par While your hand is grafted to a weapon, you lose the use of that hand and take a \endash 2 penalty on all
 skill checks requiring the use of hands. Powers that temporarily polymorph or metamorph you can ignore the grafted weapon or alter it normally, at your discretion. If the weapon takes damage, you take damage as well. If you are healed, so is your grafted
 weapon. If your weapon is destroyed, you permanently lose 2 points of Constitution; the ability drain persists until you can restore your natural anatomy (by means of }{\i regenerate }{or a similar effect).
\par When this power\rquote s duration expires, the grafted weapon falls to the ground and your hand returns.
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Grease, Psionic
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Metacreativity (Creation)
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Visual and olfactory
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
\par }{\b Target or Area:}{ One object or a 10-ft. square
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 round/level (D)
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ See spell text
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ No
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par As the }{\i grease }{spell, except as noted here.
\par Sometimes this power is referred to as }{\i ectoplasmic sheen.
\par }{
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Grip of Iron
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psychic warrior 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 immediate action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 round/level
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par You can improve your chances in a grapple as an immediate action, gaining a +4 enhancement bonus on your grapple checks.
\par You can manifest
 this power with an instant thought, quickly enough to gain the benefit of the power in the current round. Manifesting this power is an immediate action, like manifesting a quickened power, and it counts toward the normal limit of one quickened power per 
round. You can manifest this power when it isn\rquote t your turn (if you are grappled).
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every 4 additional power points you spend, the enhancement bonus on your grapple checks increases by 2.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Hail of Crystals
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Metacreativity (Creation)
\par }{\b Level:}{ Shaper 5
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory and visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./ level)
\par }{\b Area:}{ 20-ft.-radius burst
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Reflex half
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ No
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 9
\par A tiny ectoplasmic crystal emanates 
from your outstretched hand and rapidly expands to a 2-foot-diameter ball of crystal as it speeds toward the location you designate. You can choose to aim this crystal at a single target or at a specific point in space (a grid intersection).
\par If you aim the crystal at a single target, you must make a ranged touch attack to strike the target. Any creature or object struck by the ball of crystal takes 5d4 points of bludgeoning damage.
\par Whether the crystal hits its target, misses, or was aimed at a point in spac
e, it explodes upon arrival at the location you designated. Anyone within 20 feet of the explosion takes 9d4 points of slashing damage from the thousands of crystal shards that spray forth.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every additional power point you spend, this power\rquote s damage from the explosion of the crystal increases by 1d4 points.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Hammer
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 1, psychic warrior 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory and material
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 round
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par This power charges your touch with the force of a sledgehammer. A successful melee touch attack deals 1d8 points of bludgeoning damage. This damage is not increased or decreased by your Strength modifier.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every additional power point you spend, this power\rquote s duration increases by 1 round.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Hustle
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism
\par }{\b Level:}{ Egoist 3, psychic warrior 2
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 swift action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Effect:}{ 1 extra move action
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ Egoist 5, psychic warrior 3
\par You gain an additional move action in the current round. Taking a full round\rquote s worth of attacks and then using this power to move away from your foe does provoke attacks of opportunity.
\par You can manifest this power with an instant thought, quickly enoug
h to gain the benefit of the power before you move. Manifesting the power is a swift action, like manifesting a quickened power, and it counts toward the normal limit of one quickened power per round. You cannot manifest this power when it isn\rquote 
t your turn.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Hypercognition
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience
\par }{\b Level:}{ Seer 8
\par }{\b Display:}{ Mental
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action or 1 immediate action; see text
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 15
\par You make lightning-fast deductions based on only the slig
htest clue, pattern, or scrap of memory resident in your mind. You can make reasonable statements about a person, place, or object, seemingly from very little knowledge. However, your knowledge is in fact the result of a rigorously logical process that yo
u force your mind to undertake, digging up and correlating every possible piece of knowledge bearing on the topic (possibly even extracting echoes of knowledge from the Astral Plane).
\par The nature of the knowledge you gain concerning the subject of your analy
sis might include the answer to a riddle, the way out of a maze, stray bits of information about a person, legends about a place or an object, or even a conclusion concerning a dilemma that your conscious mind is unable to arrive at.
\par An Intelligence check may be required to obtain the desired information. If so, you can manifest }{\i hypercognition }{as an immediate action prior to making the check and receive a +20 bonus for doing so.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Id Insinuation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy (Compulsion) [Mind-
\par Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 2
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Close (25 ft. +5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b Target:}{ One creature
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Concentration + 1 round
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will negates
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 3
\par As the }{\i confusion }{spell, except as noted here.
\par Swift tendrils of thought disrupt the unconscious mind of any one creature, sapping its might. As long as the manifester remains concentrating fully on this power, the subject is }{\i confused}{
, making it unable to independently determine it will do. Roll on the following table at the beginning of each of the subject\rquote s turns to see what the subject does in that round.
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4674 
\cellx5382\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b d%\cell Behavior\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4674 \cellx5382\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4674 \cellx5382\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {01\endash 10\cell Attack manifester with melee or ranged weapons (or move toward manifester if attack is not possible).\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4674 \cellx5382\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {11\endash 20\cell Act normally.\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4674 \cellx5382\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {21\endash 50\cell Do nothing but babble incoherently.\cell 
}\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4674 \cellx5382\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {51\endash 70\cell Flee from manifester at top possible speed.
\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4674 \cellx5382\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4674 \cellx5382\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {71\endash 100\cell Attack nearest creature (for this purpose, a psicrystal counts as part of the subject\rquote s self).\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4674 
\cellx5382\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b Augment:}{ For every 2 additional power points you spend, this power\rquote 
s save DC increases by 1, and the power can affect an additional target. Any additional target cannot be more than 15 feet from another target of the power.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Identify, Psionic
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 2
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material and mental
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ One day
\par }{\b Range:}{ Touch
\par }{\b Target:}{ One touched object
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ No
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 3
\par As the }{\i identify }{spell, except as noted here. 
\par This power is used to identify the abilities of psionic items.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Immovability
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psychic warrior 4
\par }{\b Display:}{ Visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Concentration
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 7
\par You are almost impossible to move. Your weight does not vary; instead, you mentally attac
h yourself to the underlying fabric of the plane. Thus, you could conceivably anchor yourself in midair. Any creature attempting to physically move you must succeed on an opposed Strength check, and you gain a +20 bonus on the check. You can\rquote 
t voluntarily move to a new location unless you stop concentrating, which ends the power.
\par You cannot apply your Dexterity bonus to Armor Class; however, your anchored body gains damage reduction 15/\endash .
\par You cannot make physical attacks or perform any other large-scale mov
ements (you can make smallscale movements, such as breathing, turning your head, moving your eyes, talking, and so on). Powers with the teleportation descriptor, or any telekinetic effect, manifested on you automatically fail.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ If you spend 8 additional power points, you can manifest this power as an immediate action.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Incarnate
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Metacreativity
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 5
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 2 rounds
\par }{\b Range:}{ See text
\par }{\b Target, Effect, or Area:}{ See text
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Permanent; see text
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ No
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 9, XP
\par This power makes certain other powers permanent. Depending on the power to be affected, you must be of a minimum manifester level and must expend a number of XP.
\par You can make the following powers permanent only in regard to yourself.
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2403\clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1731 
\cellx4134\clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1072 \cellx5206\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b Power\cell }\pard\plain \s3\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0 
\b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Minimum Manifester Level\cell }\pard\plain \s5\qr \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel4\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {XP Cost\cell 
}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2403\clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1731 \cellx4134\clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1072 \cellx5206\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx2403\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1731 \cellx4134\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1072 \cellx5206\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Aura sight\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {15th\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {2,000 XP\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2403\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1731 \cellx4134\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1072 \cellx5206\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Conceal thoughts\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {9th\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {500 XP\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2403\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1731 \cellx4134\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1072 \cellx5206\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Danger sense\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {13th\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1,500 XP\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2403\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1731 \cellx4134\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1072 \cellx5206\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Detect psionics\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {9th\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {500 XP\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2403\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1731 \cellx4134\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1072 \cellx5206\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Detect remote viewing\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {15th\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {2,000 XP\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2403\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1731 \cellx4134\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1072 \cellx5206\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Detect teleportation\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {9th\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {500 XP\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2403\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1731 \cellx4134\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1072 \cellx5206\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Elfsight\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {11th\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1,000 XP\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2403\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1731 \cellx4134\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1072 \cellx5206\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Know direction and location\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {9th\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {500 XP\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2403\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1731 \cellx4134\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1072 \cellx5206\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i My light\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {9th\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {500 XP\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2403\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1731 \cellx4134\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1072 \cellx5206\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Psionic darkvision\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {13th\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1,500 XP\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2403\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1731 \cellx4134\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1072 \cellx5206\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Psionic tongues\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {11th\cell }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1,000 XP\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2403\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1731 \cellx4134\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1072 \cellx5206\row }\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2403\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1731 \cellx4134
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1072 \cellx5206\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Ubiquitous vision\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {13th\cell }\pard 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1,500 XP\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2403\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1731 \cellx4134\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1072 \cellx5206\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {You manifest the desired power and then follow it with the }{\i incarnate }{manifestation.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Inertial Armor
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychokinesis
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 1, psychic warrior 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Visual; see text
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 hour/level (D)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1; see text
\par Your mind generates a tangible field of force that provides a +4 armor bonus to Armor Class. Unlike mundane armor, }{\i inertial armor }{entails no armor check penalty or speed reduction. Because }{\i inertial armor }{
is composed of psychokinetic force, incorporeal creatures can\rquote t bypass it the way they do normal armor.
\par Your }{\i inertial armor }{can be invisible or can appear as a colored glow, at your option.
\par The armor bonus provided by }{\i inertial armor }{does not stack with the armor bonus provided by regular armor.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every 2 additional power points you spend, the armor bonus to Armor Class increases by 1.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Inertial Barrier
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychokinesis
\par }{\b Level:}{ Kineticist 4, psychic warrior 4
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory and mental
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 10 min./level
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 7
\par You create a skin-tight psychokinetic barrier around yourself that resists blows, cuts, stabs, and slashes, as well as providing some protection against falling. You gain damage reduction 5/\endash . }{\i Inertial barrier }{
also absorbs half the damage you take from any fall.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Inflict Pain
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 2
\par }{\b Display:}{ Mental
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b Target:}{ One creature
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 round/level
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will partial; see text
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 3
\par You telepathically stab the mind of your foe, causing horrible agony. The subject suffers wracking pain that imposes a \endash 4 penalty on attack rolls, skill checks, and ability checks. If the target makes its save, it takes only a \endash 2 penalty.

\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every 2 additional power points you spend, this power\rquote s save DC increases by 1, and the power can affect an additional target. Any additional target cannot be more than 15 feet from another target of the power.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Insanity
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 7
\par }{\b Display:}{ Mental
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standardaction
\par }{\b Range:}{ Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b Target:}{ One creature
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will negates
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 13
\par As the }{\i confusion}{ spell, except as noted here. 
\par Creatures affected by this power are permanently }{\i confused }{and constantly behave randomly. Roll on the following table at the beginning the subject\rquote s turn each round to see what the subject does in that round.
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4908 
\cellx5616\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b d%\cell Behavior\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4908 \cellx5616\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4908 \cellx5616\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {01\endash 10\cell Attack manifester with melee or ranged weapons (or move toward manifester if attack is not possible).\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4908 \cellx5616\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {11\endash 20\cell Act normally.\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4908 \cellx5616\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {21\endash 50\cell Do nothing but babble incoherently.\cell 
}\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4908 \cellx5616\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {51\endash 70\cell Flee from manifester at top possible speed.
\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4908 \cellx5616\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4908 \cellx5616\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {71\endash 100\cell Attack nearest creature (for this purpose, a psicrystal counts as part of the subject\rquote s self).\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx708\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4908 
\cellx5616\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {Only }{\i psychic chirurgery}{, }{\i reality revision}{, and other similarly extreme measures can restore the subject\rquote s sanity.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every 2 additional power points you spend, this power\rquote s save DC increases by 1, and the power can affect an additional target. Any additional target cannot be more than 15 feet from another target of the power.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Intellect Fortress
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychokinesis
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 4
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 immediate action
\par }{\b Range:}{ 20 ft.
\par }{\b Area:}{ 20-ft.-radius spread centered on you
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 round
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 7
\par You encase yourself and your allies in a shimmering fortress of telekinetic force. All damage from powers and psi-like abilities taken by subjects inside the area of the }{\i intellect fortress, }{
including ability damage, is halved. This lowering takes place prior to the effects of other powers or abilities that lessen damage, such as damage reduction and evasion.
\par Powers that are not subject to power resistance are not affected by an }{\i intellect fortress.
\par }{You can manifest this power instantly, quickly enough to gain its benefits in an emergency. Manifesting the power is an immediate action, like manifesting a quickened pow
er, and it counts toward the normal limit of one quickened power per round. You can use this power even when it\rquote s not your turn.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every additional power point you spend, this power\rquote s duration increases by 1 round.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Iron Body, Psionic
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Metacreativity (Creation)
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 8
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 min./level (D)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 15
\par As the }{\i iron body }{spell, except as noted here. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Keen Edge, Psionic
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Metacreativity
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 3, psychic warrior 3
\par }{\b Display:}{ Visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b Targets:}{ One weapon or fifty projectiles, all of which must be in contact with each other at the time of manifestation
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 10 min./level
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will negates (harmless, object)
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes (harmless, object)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 5
\par As the }{\i keen edge }{spell, except as noted here.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Knock, Psionic
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychoportation
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 2
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./ level)
\par }{\b Target:}{ One door, box, or chest with an area of up to 10 sq. ft./level
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous; see spell text
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ No
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 3
\par As the }{\i knock }{spell, except as noted here.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Know Direction and Location
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Mental
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par You generally know where you are. This power is useful to characters who end up at unfamiliar destinations after teleporting, using a }{\i gate, }{
or traveling to or from other planes of existence. The power reveals general information about your location as a feeling or presentiment. The information is usually no more detailed 
than a summary that locates you according to a prominent local or regional site. Using this power also tells you what direction you are facing.
\par Using this power prior to making a Knowledge (the planes) check with }{\i astral caravan }{grants a +2 bonus on the check.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Leech Field
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 5
\par }{\b Display:}{ Visual; see text
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal; see text
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 min.
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 9
\par You raise a field of potentiality that drains the vitality from powers that you successfully save against. When you succeed on a saving throw to negate the effect of a foe\rquote s power on you, and the power is one that }{\i leech field }{
is effective against (see below), your body erupts in a brief flash of crackling dark energy. You
 gain 1 power point for every 2 power points your foe spent to manifest the power you just saved against (to a maximum number of points equal to your manifester level). You cannot gain power points that would cause you to exceed your normal daily maximum.

\par This power is effective against any power that targets a single creature and allows the target a saving throw to negate it, except those that are delivered by a touch attack or a ranged touch attack (including a ray).
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every 2 additional power points you spend, this power\rquote s duration increases by 1 minute.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Levitate, Psionic
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychoportation
\par }{\b Level:}{ Nomad 2, psion/wilder 2, psychic warrior 2
\par }{\b Display:}{ Olfactory
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal or close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b Target:}{ You or one willing creature or one object (total weight up to 100 lb./level)
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 10 min./level (D)
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes (harmless, object)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 3
\par As the }{\i levitate }{spell, except as noted here.
\par }{\b Special:}{ When a psion, wilder, or a psychic warrior manifests this power, the target is the manifester (not a willing creature or an object).
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Major Creation, Psionic
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Metacreativity (Creation)
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 5
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 10 minutes
\par }{\b Range:}{ Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b Duration:}{ See spell text
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 9
\par As the }{\i major creation }{spell, except as noted here.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Matter Agitation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychokinesis
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory and material
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b Area:}{ 2 sq. ft. of surface area of an object or creature
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Concentration, up to 1 min./level
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par You can excite the structure of a nonpsionic, nonmagical object, heating it to the point of combustion over time. The agitation grows more intense in the second and third rounds after you manifest the power, as described below.
\par }{\i 1st Round: }{Readily flammable material (paper, dry grass, tinder, torches) ignites. Skin reddens (1 point of damage).
\par }{\i 2nd Round: }{Wood smolders and smokes, metal becomes hot to the touch, skin blisters (1d4 points of damage), hair smolders, paint shrivels, water boils.
\par }{\i 3rd and Subsequent Rounds: }{Wood ignites, metal scorches (1d4 points of damage for those holding metallic objects). Skin burns and hair ignites (1d6 points of damage), lead melts.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Matter Manipulation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Metacreativity
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 8
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory and mental
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b Area:}{ 1 cu. ft./level of inanimate material
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 15, XP
\par You can weaken or strengthen the substance of an object or structure. You can affect both mundane and magical inanimate material. Weakening an object\rquote s subs
tance decreases its hardness and hit points, and strengthening it increases its hardness and hit points. You can increase or decrease an object\rquote 
s hardness by up to 5 from its original hardness. When hardness increases, the object (or portion of an object) 
gains 3 hit points per inch of thickness for every point of increased hardness. When hardness decreases, the object (or portion of an object) loses 2 hit points per inch of thickness for every point of decreased hardness (to a minimum of 1 hit point per i
nch of thickness).
\par You can\rquote t decrease the hardness of an object that already has hardness 0.
\par }{\i Working Manipulated Metals: }{An object or portion thereof whose hardness is decreased or increased is permanently changed. Even hardening adamantine to 25 is possibl
e. You can also harden or weaken a preforged weapon, a suit of armor, or some other finished item.
\par }{\i XP Cost: }{250 XP for each point by which the object\rquote s hardness is altered.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Mental Barrier
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 3, psychic warrior 3
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 immediate action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 round
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 5
\par You project a field of improbability around yourself, creating a fleeting protective shell. You gain a +4 deflection bonus to Armor Class.
\par You can man
ifest this power instantly, quickly enough to gain its benefits in an emergency. Manifesting the power is an immediate action, like manifesting a quickened power, and it counts toward the normal limit of one quickened power per round. You can use this pow
er even when it\rquote s not your turn; however, you must manifest it prior to an opponent\rquote s attack roll in order to gain this power\rquote s benefit against that attack.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ You can augment this power in one or both of the following ways.
\par 1. If you spend 4 additional power points, the deflection bonus to Armor Class increases by 1.
\par 2. For every additional power point you spend, this power\rquote s duration increases by 1 round.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Mental Disruption
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 2
\par }{\b Display:}{ Mental
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ 10 ft.
\par }{\b Area:}{ 10-ft.-radius spread centered on you
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will negates
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 3
\par You generate a mental wave of confusion that instantly sweeps out from your location. All creatures you designate in the affected area (you can choose certain creatures to be unaffected) must make a Will save or become dazed for 1 round.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ You can augment this power in one or both of the following ways.
\par 1. For every 2 additional power points you spend, this power\rquote s save DC increases by 1.
\par 2. For every 2 additional power points you spend, this power\rquote s range and the radius of its area both increase by 5 feet.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Metaconcert
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psychic warrior 5, telepath 5
\par }{\b Display:}{ Visual; see text
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 minute
\par }{\b Range:}{ 20 ft.
\par }{\b Target:}{ You and up to nine other willing psionic creatures in range
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 min./level (D)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 9
\par You link your psychic might with other psionic creatures, creating an entity more powerful than the sum of its parts.
\par When you manifest this power, a number of power points you designate flows from each participant into a collective pool. One individual is chosen as the }{\i metaconcert }{conductor by mutual consent of the other participant
s (this is usually the manifester, but doesn\rquote t have to be). Until the power ends, this conductor directs the efforts of the group. Misty strands of glowing power link the brows of all the participants in a complex and shifting pattern.
\par All the powers of each participant are known to the mental entity ccreated with }{\i metaconcert }{(which is under the conductor\rquote s command). This entity can\rquote 
t take any more actions than a normal individual, but it manifests all its powers more effectively. Each participant contribut
ing to the entity provides a cumulative +1 bonus to save DCs that apply when manifesting a power or using a psi-like ability. Likewise, each individual provides a cumulative +1 bonus when the entity makes its own saving throws in response to powers or psi
-like abilities.
\par If the psionic entity takes ability damage from a psionic attack}{\i  }{the total is divided among all the members as determined by the conductor.
\par If the entity manifests a power that has an XP cost, all the participants pay an equal share (the conductor pays the remainder if the cost can\rquote t be divided evenly).
\par Once linked, the participants must remain within a 20-foot-radius area, and as a group can move at a speed of 10 feet. If a participant moves outside the 20-foot-radius area occupied by the o
thers (whether willingly or involuntarily), that individual drops out of the group, and the power point pool of the }{\i metaconcert }{is instantly recalculated.
\par All participants who leave before a }{\i metaconcert }{ends or is dismissed reclaim a number of power points
 equal to the current power point pool divided by the number of members. If the conductor drops out, the power ends. That same number of points is removed from the power point pool.
\par When a }{\i metaconcert }{ends normally or is dismissed, remaining power points in the pool are divided among all the participants (the conductor receives the remainder if the points can\rquote t be divided evenly).
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every additional power point you spend, this power\rquote s duration increases by 1 minute.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Metafaculty
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience
\par }{\b Level:}{ Seer 9
\par }{\b Display:}{ Mental, olfactory, and visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 hour
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous and 1 min./level (D); see text
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 17, XP
\par You elevate your mind to a near-universal consciousness, cogitating countless impressions and predictions involving any creature you have seen before, whether personally or by means of another power such as }{\i remote viewing}{.
\par This process gives you an uncannily accurate vision of the creature\rquote s nature, activities, and whereabouts. When you manifest the power, you learn the following facts about the creature.
\par \bullet  Its name, race, alignment, and character class.
\par \bullet  A general estimate of its level or Hit Dice: low (5 HD or lower), medium (6 to 11 HD), high (12 to 20 HD), very high (21 HD to 40 HD), or deific (41 HD or higher).
\par \bullet  Its location (including place of residence, town, country, world, and plane of existence).
\par \bullet  Significant items currently in its possession.
\par \bullet  Any significant activities or actions the creature has undertaken in the pr
evious 8 hours, including details such as locales traveled through, the names or races of those the creature fought, spells it cast, items it acquired, and items it left behind (including the location of those items).
\par \bullet  A current mental view of the creature, as described in the }{\i remote viewing }{power, which you can maintain for up to 1 minute per level.
\par }{\i Metafaculty }{can defeat spells, powers, and special abilities such as }{\i screen }{or }{\i mind blank }{(or even a }{\i wish }{spell) that normally obscure clairsentience powers. 
You can attempt a caster level check (DC 6 + caster level of the creator of the obscuring effect) to defeat these sorts of otherwise impervious defenses.
\par }{\i Metafaculty }{is defeated by epic powers, epic spells, and epic special abilities that obscure divinations and clairsentience powers.
\par }{\i XP Cost: }{1,000.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Metamorphosis
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism
\par }{\b Level:}{ Egoist 4
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material and olfactory
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 min./level (D) for a creature; 1 hour/level (D) for an object
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 7
\par You assume the form of a creature of the same type as your normal form, or any other type except construct, elemental, outsider, and undead. The assumed form can have as many Hit Dice as your manifester level, to a maximum of 15.
\par You can\rquote t assume a form smaller than Fine, nor can you assume an incorporeal, ectoplasmic, or gaseous form. You cannot take the form of any creature that has a template. Your type and subtype (if applicable) change to match the new form.
\par Upon changing, you r
egain lost hit points as if you had rested for a night (though this healing does not restore ability damage and provide other benefits of resting; and changing back does not heal you further). If you are slain while under the effect of this power, you rev
e
rt to your original form, though you remain dead. You gain the Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution scores of the new form but retain your own Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores. You also gain all extraordinary special attacks possessed by the for
m (such as constrict, improved grab, and poison) but do not gain the extraordinary special qualities possessed by the new form (such as blindsense, fast healing, regeneration, and scent) or any supernatural, psionic, or spelllike abilities.
\par You retain all s
upernatural and spell-like special attacks and special qualities of your normal form, except for those requiring a body part that the new form does not have, if any. You keep all extraordinary special attacks and special qualities derived from class level
s
, but you lose any benefits of the racial traits of your normal form. If you have a template, special abilities it provides are likewise not retained. If the assumed form is capable of speech, you can communicate normally. You retain any manifesting abili
ty you had in your original form.
\par You acquire the physical qualities of the new form while retaining your own mind. Physical qualities include natural size, mundane movement capabilities (such as burrowing, climbing, walking, swimming, and flight with wings
, to a maximum speed of 120 feet for flying or 60 feet for nonflying movement), natural armor bonus, natural weapons (such as claws or a bite), racial bonuses on skill checks, racial bonus feats, and any anatomical qualities (presence or absence of wings,
 number of extremities, and so forth). A body with extra limbs does not allow you to make more attacks (or more advantageous two-weapon attacks) than normal.
\par You can freely designate the new form\rquote s minor physical qualities (such as hair color, hair texture, and skin color) within the normal ranges for a creature of that type. The new form\rquote 
s significant physical qualities (such as height, weight, and gender) are also under your control, but they must fall within the norms for the new form\rquote s species. You are effectively disguised as an average member of the new form\rquote 
s race. If you use this power to create a disguise, you get a +10 bonus on your Disguise check.
\par When the change occurs, your equipment either remains worn or held by the new form (if it is capable o
f wearing or holding the item in question) or melds into the new form and becomes nonfunctional. When you revert to your normal form, any objects previously melded into the new form reappear in the same location on your body they previously occupied and a
re once again functional. Any new items you wore in the assumed form and can\rquote 
t wear in your normal form fall off and land at your feet; any that you could wear in either form or carry in a body part common to both forms (mouth, hands, or the like) at the ti
me of reversion are still held in the same way. Any part of the body or piece of equipment that is separated from the whole reverts to its normal form.
\par You can also use this power to assume the form of an inanimate object. You gain the object\rquote s hardness an
d retain your own hit points. You can take the shape of almost any simple object you can think of. If you attempt to take the form of a complex object, you must make an appropriate skill check.. If you fail the check, your manifestation of the power does 
n
ot succeed. Likewise, you cannot take the form of a complex mechanical mechanism unless you have some sort of skill associated with the object. You cannot use this power to assume the form of a psionic item or a magic item, or any object with a hardness o
f 15 or higher. You also cannot take the form of a psionically animated mechanism or any object formed of ectoplasm.
\par As an inanimate object, you lose all mobility. You retain your normal senses and your ability to speak. You can manifest a power if you make
 a Concentration check (DC 20 + power level); however, doing so ends the duration of this power. If you take damage while in the form of an object, your actual body also takes damage (but the object\rquote s hardness, if any, protects you).
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Metamorphosis, Greater
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism
\par }{\b Level:}{ Egoist 9
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material and visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 min./level (D) for a creature; 1 hour/level (D) for an object
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 17, XP
\par As }{\i metamorphosis}{, except that thi
s power enables you to assume the form of any single nonunique object or creature (of any type) from Fine to Colossal size. The assumed form cannot have more Hit Dice than twice your manifester level (to a maximum of 50 HD). Unlike }{\i metamorphosis}{
, this power allows incorporeal, ectoplasmic, or gaseous forms to be assumed.
\par You gain all extraordinary and supernatural abilities (both special attacks and special qualities) of the assumed form, but you lose your own supernatural abilities. You also gain the type 
of the new form (for example, dragon or magical beast) in place of your own. The new form does not disorient you. Parts of your body or pieces of equipment that are separated from you do not revert to their original form.
\par You can become just about anything you are familiar with. You can change form once each round as a swift action.
\par The change takes place either immediately before your regular action or immediately after it, but not during the action.
\par If you use this power to create a disguise, you get a +10 bonus on your Disguise check.
\par As an inanimate object, you lose all mobility; however, you retain your ability to manifest powers normally.
\par }{\i XP Cost: }{200 XP.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Metaphysical Claw
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psychic warrior 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 min./level
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par If you have a claw attack (either from an actual natural weapon or from an effect such as }{\i claws of the beast}{) or a bite attack (which could be a natural bite attack or one you gain by means of the power }{\i bite of the wolf }{
), you can use this power to provide one of your natural weapons a +1 enhancement bonus on attack rolls and damage rolls.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ If you spend 4 additional power points, this power\rquote s duration increases to 1 hour per level.
\par In addition, for every 4 additional power points you spend, this power improves the natural weapon\rquote s enhancement bonus on attack rolls and damage rolls by 1.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Metaphysical Weapon
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Metacreativity
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psychic warrior 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Touch
\par }{\b Target:}{ Weapon touched
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 min./level
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will negates (harmless, object)
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes (harmless, object)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par }{\i Metaphysical weapon }{gives a weapon a +1 enhancement bonus on attack rolls and damage rolls. (An enhancement bonus does not stack with a masterwork weapon\rquote s +1 bonus on attack rolls.)
\par Alternatively, you can affect up to fifty arrows, bolts, or bullets. The projectiles must be of the same type, and they have to be tog
ether (such as in the same quiver). Projectiles, but not thrown weapons, lose their enhancement when used. (Treat shuriken as projectiles, rather than thrown weapons, for the purpose of this power.)
\par You can\rquote t manifest this power on most natural weapons, including a psychic warrior\rquote s claw strike. This power does work on a weapon brought into being by the }{\i graft weapon }{power.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ If you spend 4 additional power points, this power\rquote s duration increases to 1 hour per level.
\par In addition, for every 4 additional power points you spend, this power improves the weapon\rquote s enhancement bonus on attack rolls and damage rolls by 1.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Microcosm
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 9
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b Target or Area:}{ One creature; or one or more creatures within a 15-ft.-radius sphere
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 17
\par This power enables you to warp the consciousness and senses of one or more creatures, sending the victim into a catatonic state. When }{\i microcosm }{
is manifested, you can target either a single creature within range or a group of creatures all located within the power\rquote s area.
\par }{\i Single Target: }{If }{\i microcosm }{targets a single creature, that creature\rquote s senses are pinched off from the real world if it currently has 100 or fewer hit points. The subject\rquote 
s senses are all completely fabricated from within its own mind, though it may not realize this. In reality, the subject sprawls li
mply, drooling and mewling, and eventually dies of thirst and starvation without care. The subject lives within its own made-up world until the time of its actual death.
\par }{\i Area Effect: }{If }{\i microcosm }{is manifested on an area, it sends all affected creatures in
to a shared catatonia (the world is a construct, but within the world, the victims can interact with each other). It affects only creatures that currently have 30 or fewer hit points, and only up to a total of 300 hit points of such creatures. The power a
ffects creatures with the lowest hit point totals first. (Creatures with negative hit points count as having 0 hit points.)
\par Manifesting }{\i microcosm }{a second time on an affected creature turns its sensory pathways outward once more. Otherwise, only very potent powers (such as }{\i psychic chirurgery }{or }{\i reality revision}{) or similar effects (such as }{\i miracle }{
or }{\i wish}{) can undo the mental crosswiring that this power brings about.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every additional power point you spend, the number of individual and group hit points the power can affect increases by 10.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Mind Blank, Personal
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 7, psychic warrior 6
\par }{\b Display:}{ Olfactory
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ One day
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ Psion/wilder 13, psychic warrior 11
\par As }{\i psionic mind blank }{(see below), except as noted here.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Mind Blank, Psionic
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 8
\par }{\b Display:}{ Olfactory
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b Target:}{ One creature
\par }{\b Duration:}{ One day
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will negates (harmless)
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes (harmless)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 15
\par The subject is protected from all devices, powers, and spells that detect, influence, or read emotions or thoughts. This power protects against powers with the mind-affecting or scrying descriptors. }{\i Psionic mind blank }{even foils }{\i 
bend reality, limited wish, miracle, reality revision, }{and }{\i wish }{when they are used in such a way as to affect the subject\rquote s mind or to gain information about it (however, }{\i metafaculty }{can pierce the protective quality of }{\i 
psionic mind blank}{). In the case of }{\i remote viewing }{or scrying that scans an area the creature is in, the effect works but the creature simply isn\rquote t detected. }{\i Remote viewing }{(scrying) attempts that 
are targeted specifically at the subject do not work at all.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Mind Probe
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy (Charm) [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Telepath 5
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory, material, and visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 minute
\par }{\b Range:}{ Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b Target:}{ One creature
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 round/level (D)
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will partial; see text
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 9
\par All the subject\rquote s memories and knowledge are accessible to you, from memories deep below the surface to those still easily called to mind. You can learn the answer to one question per round, to the best of the subject\rquote 
s knowledge. If the subject succeeds on a Will save, it is not required to answer the question; however, making a save does not end the power. You can ask the subject a new question (or the same question) in subsequent rounds for as long as the power
\rquote s duration persists.
\par You can probe a sleeping subject and automatically get an answer to your question. If the subject then succeeds on a Will save, it wakes after providing the answer and thereafter can resist answering by making Will saves as described above.
\par Subjects that do not wish to be probed can attempt to move beyond the power\rquote s range, unless they are somehow hindered. You pose the questions telepathically, and the answers to those questions 
are imparted directly to your mind. You and the subject do not need to speak the same language, though less intelligent creatures may yield up only appropriate visual images in answer to your questions.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Mind Seed
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy (Compulsion) [Evil, Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Telepath 8
\par }{\b Display:}{ Mental
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Touch
\par }{\b Target:}{ One touched Medium or smaller humanoid
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous; see text
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will negates
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 15, XP
\par You impress the totality of your psyche into a subject\rquote s subconscious. If successfully implanted, the seed of your mind \'93germinates\'94 over the period of one week. During this time, the subject begins to unconsciously take on your mannerisms. 

\par When integration is complete (after one week), the subject becomes you in mind as you were when you manifested the power, but the subject\rquote s level is eight lower than your own. (In effect, the subject has received eight negative levels\emdash 
but these are negative levels that can\rquote t be removed.)
 The subject does not have any of your physical ability scores or equipment, but does have the Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores you had when you were eight levels lower. The subject also knows the powers you knew when you were eight levels lower.

\par While the subject is initially your mental duplicate, the two personalities diverge over time. Although the subject starts off with memories of your experiences, it possesses its original \'93soul\'94
 and physical body and is free to develop its own personality based on its own new experiences. Thus, the subject is not your slave or servant, but instead a nonplayer character in its own right that shares your earlier memories.
\par }{\i Protection from evil }{or a similar spell or power can prevent you from implanting }{\i mind seed, }{or prevent a seed from germinating while the protective power lasts. Otherwise, a germinating seed can be removed (prior to germination) only by }{
\i psychic chirurgery, reality revision}{, or similarly high-level effects. Manifesting }{\i mind seed }{again during the germination period also cleanses the subject\rquote s mind.
\par }{\i XP Cost: }{3,000 XP.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Mind Switch
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Telepath 6
\par }{\b Display:}{ Visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 round
\par }{\b Range:}{ Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b Targets:}{ You and one other creature
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 10 min./level
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will negates; see text
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 11, XP
\par You can attempt to take control of a nearby living creature, forcing your mind (and soul) into its body, and its mind into your body. You can target any creature whose Hit Dice are equal to or less than your manifester level.
\par You possess the target\rquote s body and force the creature\rquote s mind into your body unless it succeeds on a Will save. You can move your mind back into your own body whenever you desire, which returns the subject\rquote 
s mind to its own body and ends the power. If the manifestation succeeds, your life force occupies the host body, and the host\rquote s life force takes over yours.
\par You can call on rudimentary or instinctive knowledge of the subject creature, but not upon its acquired or learned knowledge (such as skills and feats it possesses). The same is true for the subject in your body. The }{\i mind switch }{
brings about the following changes.
\par \bullet  You gain the type of your assumed body.
\par \bullet  You gain the Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution scores of your assumed body.
\par \bullet  You gain the natural armor, natural attacks, movement, and other simple physical characteristics of your assumed body.
\par \bullet  You gain the extraordinary special attacks and qualities of your assumed body, but you do not gain supernatural or spell-like abilities.
\par \bullet  You gain the possessions and equipment of your assumed body.
\par \bullet  You retain your own hit points, saving throws (possibly modified by new ability scores), class abilities, supernatural and spell-like ab
ilities, spells and powers, and skills and feats (although skill checks use your new ability scores, and you may be temporarily unable to use feats whose requirements you do not meet in your new body).
\par Supernatural abilities that require a certain body part may be unavailable in your new form.
\par If either body is killed while the power is in effect, the other participant also dies when the power ends. If one participant\rquote s body becomes petrified, imprisoned by }{\i temporal stasis }{or }{\i imprisonment, }{or incapacitated 
in some other way, the other participant will be incapacitated in that way when the power ends.
\par A targeted }{\i dispel psionics }{(or similar spells or effects) successfully manifested on either participant causes both minds to return to their original bodies.
\par }{\i XP Cost: }{100 XP.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every 2 additional power points you spend, this power\rquote s save DC increases by 1.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Mind Switch, True
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Telepath 9
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 minute
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will negates; see text
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 17, XP
\par As }{\i mind switch, }{except as noted here. You permanently exchange bodies with the subject. Since this power\rquote s duration is instantaneous, you cannot be forced to return to your natural body by means of }{\i dispel psionics, }{an }{\i 
antimagic field, }{or a similar effect. If the subject\rquote 
s body dies while you are in it, you are dead. The subject immediately loses one level, but otherwise survives the experience in your natural body. If your natural body dies while the subject is
 in it, you immediately lose one level, but you likewise survive the experience in your new body.
\par Your \'93natural\'94 body is always considered to be the last one you switched out of. If you exchange bodies with a chain of multiple subjects, you need worry only
 about the welfare of the last body you switched with. In other words, if your mind is expelled from your current body, your mind returns to the last body you switched with, not to your original body. Similarly, if your original body dies but you have sin
ce switched minds with a second subject, you take no penalty. You lose a level only if the body you inhabited immediately prior to your current body is killed.
\par }{\i XP Cost: }{10,000 XP.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Mind Thrust
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b Target:}{ One creature
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will negates
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par You instantly deliver a massive assault on the thought pathways of any one creature, dealing 1d10 points of damage to it.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every additional power point you spend, this power\rquote s damage increases by 1d10 points. For each extra 2d10 points of damage, this power\rquote s save DC increases by 1.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Mind Trap
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 3
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 immediate action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 round
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes (harmless)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 5
\par You set up a trap in your mind against psionic intruders. Anyone who attacks you with a telepathy power immediately loses 1d6 power points. This power\rquote 
s effect does not negate the power that is currently being used against you. You can manifest this power instantly, quickly enough to gain its benefit in an eme
rgency. Manifesting the power is an immediate action, like manifesting a quickened power, and it counts toward the normal limit of one quickened power per round. You can use this power even when it is not your turn.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every additional power point you spend, this power\rquote s duration increases by 1 round.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Mindlink
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Telepath 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Mental
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); see text
\par }{\b Targets:}{ You and one other willing creature within range that has an Intelligence score of 3 or higher
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 10 min./level
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None; see text
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes (harmless)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par You forge a telepathic bond with your target. You can communicate telepathically through the b
ond even if you do not share a common language. No special power or influence is established as a result of the bond. Once the bond is formed, it works over any distance (although not from one plane to another).
\par }{\b Augment:}{ You can augment this power in one or both of the following ways.
\par 1. If you spend 4 additional power points, you can attempt to create a telepathic bond with a creature that is not willing (Will save negates).
\par 2. For every additional power point you spend, this power can affect an additional target. Any additional target cannot be more than 15 feet from another target of the power.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Mindlink, Thieving
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Telepath 4
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 10 min./level (D)
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will negates
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 7
\par As }{\i mindlink}{, except that if the target is a psionic character or creature that knows powers, you can temporarily borrow a power of your choice (you are aware of what powers the subject knows, up to the highest level of power you can manifest).

\par Borrowing the subject\rquote s power is a separate standard action that provokes an attack of opportunity. If that attack succeeds, the mental communication provided by this power ends immediately. The borrowed power fades from the subject\rquote 
s awareness and appears within your own. You can now spend power points to manifest the borrowed power just as if it were one of your powers known. You maintain knowledge of the borrowed power until the duration of your }{\i thieving mindlink }{
expires, at which time you lose knowledge of the power and the power reappears in the mind of the subject, no matter how far from you the subject is. Even if the subject is slain, you lose knowledge of the borrowed power when this power\rquote 
s duration expires.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every 2 additional power points you spend, this power\rquote s save DC increases by 1.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Mindwipe
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 4
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory, mental, and visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b Target:}{ One creature
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Fortitude negates
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 7
\par You partially wipe your victim\rquote s mind of past experiences, bestowing two negative levels upon it. If the subject has at least as many negative levels as Hit Dice, it dies. For each negative
 level it gains, a psionic creature loses knowledge of one power from its highest available level, and a number of power points from its maximum power point total sufficient to manifest that power. The effects of multiple negative levels stack.
\par If the subject survives, it loses these two negative levels after 1 hour. (No Fortitude save is necessary to avoid gaining the negative level permanently.)
\par }{\b Augment:}{ You can manifest this power in one or both of the following ways.
\par 1. For every 2 additional power points you spend, this power\rquote s save DC increases by 1.
\par 2. For every 3 additional power points you spend, this power bestows an additional negative level on the subject.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Minor Creation, Psionic
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Metacreativity (Creation)
\par }{\b Level:}{ Shaper 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 minute
\par }{\b Range:}{ 0 ft.
\par }{\b Effect:}{ Unattended, nonpsionic, nonmagical object of nonliving plant matter, up to 1 cu. ft./level
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 hour/level (D)
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ No
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par As the }{\i minor creation }{spell, except as noted here.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Missive
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy [Mind-Affecting, Language-Dependent]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Mental
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b Target:}{ One creature
\par }{\b Effect:}{ Mental message delivered to subject
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par You send a telepathic message of up to ten words to any living creature within range. }{\i Missive }{is strictly a one-way exchange from you to the subject. If you do not share a common language, the subject \'93hears\'94 meaningless mental syllables.

\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every 2 additional power points you spend, this power\rquote s range increases by 5 feet and its save DC increases by 1.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Missive, Mass
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy [Mind-Affecting, Language-Dependent]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 2
\par }{\b Display:}{ Mental
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level)
\par }{\b Targets:}{ All creatures in a 400 ft. + 40 ft./level radius centered on you; see text
\par }{\b Effect:}{ Mental message delivered to subjects
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will negates (harmless)
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes (harmless)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 3
\par You send a telepathic message of up to twenty-five words to all creatures within range. You can include or exclude from this broadcast any creature you can see, as well as any creature that you know or know of. }{\i Mass missive }{
is strictly a one-way exchange from you to the subjects. If you do not share a common language, the subjects \'93hear\'94 meaningless mental syllables.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every 2 additional power points you spend, this power\rquote s range increases by 40 feet and its save DC increases by 1.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Modify Memory, Psionic
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Telepath 4
\par }{\b Display:}{ Mental
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b Target:}{ One creature
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Permanent
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will negates
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 7
\par As the }{\i modify memory }{spell, except as noted here.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Moment of Prescience, Psionic
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 7
\par }{\b Display:}{ Visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 round/level or until discharged
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 13
\par As the }{\i moment of prescience }{spell, except as noted here.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {My Light
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychokinesis [Light]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 1, psychic warrior 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory and visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Effect:}{ 20-ft. cone of light emanating from you
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 10 min./level (D)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par Your eyes beam forth a 20-foot cone of light. You and other creatures can see normally in the light. If you walk into an area filled with psionic or magical darkness, }{\i my light }{goes dark while you stay within that area.
\par If }{\i my light }{is used in conjunction with }{\i elfsight}{, the cone of light extends out to 40 feet instead of 20 feet.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ If you spend 2 additional power points, you can manifest this power as a swift action.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Null Psionics Field
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychokinesis
\par }{\b Level:}{ Kineticist 6
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory and visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ 10 ft.
\par }{\b Area:}{ 10-ft.-radius emanation centered on you
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 10 min./level (D)
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ See text
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 11
\par An invisible barrier surrounds you and moves with you. The space within this barrier is impervious to most psionic effects, including powers, psi-like abilities, and supernatural abilities. Likewise, it prevents the functioning of any 
psionic items or powers within its confines. A }{\i null psionics field }{suppresses any power or psionic effect used within, brought into, or manifested into its area, but does not negate it. Time spent within a }{\i null psionics field }{
counts against a suppressed effect\rquote s duration.
\par Astral constructs and summoned creatures wink out if they enter a }{\i null psionics field}{. They reappear in the same spot once the field goes away. Time spent winked out counts normally against the duration of the power that is maintaining the
 construct or summoned creature.
\par Creation powers with instantaneous durations and calling powers are not affected by a }{\i null psionics field }{because the power itself is no longer in effect, only its result.
\par A normal creature (a normally encountered construct
 rather than a created one, for instance) can enter the area, as can normal missiles. Furthermore, while a psionic sword does not function psionically within the area, it is still a sword (and a masterwork sword at that). The power has no effect on golems
 
and other constructs that are imbued with magic during their creation process and are thereafter self-supporting (unless they have been summoned or have a limited duration, in which case they are treated like any other summoned creatures). Elementals, cor
poreal undead, and outsiders are likewise unaffected unless summoned. These creatures\rquote  spell-like or supernatural abilities, however, may be temporarily nullified by the field.
\par }{\i Dispel psionics }{does not remove the field. Two or more }{\i null psionics fields }{sharing any of the same space have no effect on each other. Certain powers may be unaffected by }{\i null psionics field }{
(see the individual power descriptions). Artifacts and deities are unaffected by mortal power such as this. Should a creature\rquote s space extend acr
oss the boundary of the area enclosed by the field, any part of the creature that lies outside the effect is unaffected by the field.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Oak Body
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 7, psychic warrior 5
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 min./level (D)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ Psion/wilder 13, psychic warrior 9
\par This power transforms your body into living oak, which grants you several advantages.
\par You gain damage reduction 10/ slashing and a +5 bonus to natural a
rmor that overlaps (does not stack with) any natural armor bonus you may already have. You are immune to ability damage, blindness, deafness, disease, drowning, poison, stunning, and all powers, spells, or attacks that affect your physiology or respiratio
n, because you have no physiology or respiration while this power is in effect.
\par You take only half damage from cold effects of all kinds. However, you become susceptible to all special attacks that affect wood, and you gain vulnerability to fire.
\par You gain a +4 enhancement bonus to Strength, but you take a \endash 2 penalty to Dexterity (to a minimum Dexterity score of 1), and your speed is reduced to half normal. You can speak but cannot drink (and thus can\rquote 
t use potions) or play wind instruments. You have an armor check penalty of \endash 4 and an arcane spell failure chance of 25%.
\par Your unarmed attacks deal damage equal to a club sized for you (1d4 for Small characters, 1d6 for Medium characters), and you are considered armed when making unarmed attacks. When you make a 
full attack against an object or structure using your unarmed strike, you deal double damage.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every additional power point you spend, this power\rquote s duration increases by 1 minute.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Object Reading
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience
\par }{\b Level:}{ Seer 2
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory and material
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 minute
\par }{\b Range:}{ Touch
\par }{\b Target:}{ Object touched
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Concentration, up to 10 min./level (D)
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 3
\par You can learn details of an inanimate object\rquote s previous owner. Objects accu
mulate psychic impressions left by their previous owners, which can be read by use of this power. The amount of information revealed depends on how long you study a particular object.
\par }{\i 1st Minute: }{Last owner\rquote s race.
\par }{\i 2nd Minute: }{Last owner\rquote s gender.
\par }{\i 3rd Minute: }{Last owner\rquote s age.
\par }{\i 4th Minute: }{Last owner\rquote s alignment.
\par }{\i 5th Minute: }{How last owner gained and lost the object.
\par }{\i 6th+ Minute: }{Next-to-last owner\rquote s race, and so on.
\par The power always correctly identifies the last owner of the item, and the original owner (if you keep the power active long enough).
\par There is a 90% chance that this power will successfully identify all other former owners in sequence, but there is a 10% chance that one former owner will be skipped and thus not identified.
\par This power will not identify casual users as owners. (Anyone who uses an object to attack someone or something is not thereafter considered a casual user.)
\par An object without any previous owners reveals no information. You can continue to run through a list of previous owners and learn details about them as long as the power\rquote 
s duration lasts. If you use this power additional times on the same object, the information yielded is the same as if you were using the power on the object for the first time.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every additional power point you spend, this power\rquote s maximum duration increases by 10 minutes.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Overland Flight, Psionic
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychoportation
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 6
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 hour/level (D)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 11
\par As the }{\i overland flight }{spell, except as noted here.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Painful Strike
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psychic warrior 2
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material and visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 round/level
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 3
\par Your natural weapons cause additional pain. Each successful attack you make with a natural weapon deals an extra 1d6 points of nonlethal damage to the target.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ If you spend 6 additional power points, you can manifest this power as a swift action.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Personality Parasite
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 4
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory and visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./ level)
\par }{\b Target:}{ One Medium or smaller humanoid
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 round/level (D)
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will negates
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 7
\par You attempt to briefly partition the mind of your foe, calving off a minor personality that is antagonistic to the main personality. The parasitic personality functions with complete autonomy from the main pe
rsonality. It does not control the body physically, but it can take one standard action each round that is purely mental, such as manifesting a power, in the same turn that the subject takes its normal actions.
\par The parasitic personality manifests powers using the subject\rquote s power point reserve and known powers, but can only manifest powers three or more levels lower than the highest level of power the subject can normally manifest. 
\par The parasitic personality actively attempts to manifest powers that negatively impact the subject, using the highest-level powers possible (so as to deplete the subject\rquote 
s power point reserve), and the most deadly to the subject. You do not have control over what the parasitic personality does, though it always works against the interest of the subject.
\par Both minds communicate with each other telepathically. If a creature is targeted by a compulsion or charm effect while under the effect of this power, it can make a second saving throw if the first one fails. If both saving throws fa
il, then this power ends and the creature is affected by the charm or compulsion effect.
\par The parasitic personality does not gain any advantages if the main personality is subjected to a }{\i haste }{or }{\i schism }{effect.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Phase Door, Psionic
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychoportation
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 7
\par }{\b Display:}{ Visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ 0 ft.
\par }{\b Effect:}{ Ethereal 5-ft. by 8-ft. opening, 10 ft. deep + 5 ft. deep per three levels
\par }{\b Duration:}{ One usage per two levels
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ No
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 13
\par As the }{\i phase door }{spell, except as noted here. This power is subject to }{\i dispel psionics.
\par }{
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Plane Shift, Psionic
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychoportation
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 5
\par }{\b Display:}{ Visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Touch
\par }{\b Targets:}{ Willing creature touched, or up to eight willing creatures joining hands
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 9
\par As the }{\i plane shift }{spell, except as noted here.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Power Leech
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 4
\par }{\b Display:}{ Visual; see text
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b Target:}{ Any psionic creature
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Concentration, up to 1 round/level; see text
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will negates
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 7
\par Your brow erupts with an arc of crackling dark energy that connects with your foe, draining it of 1d6 power points and adding 1 of those points to your reserve (unless that gain would cause you to exceed your maximum). 
\par The drain continues in each round you maintain concentration while the subject of the drain remains in range. If the subject is drained to 0 power points, this power ends.
\par Concentrating to maintain }{\i power leech }{is a full-round action (you can take no other actions aside from a 5-foot step) instead of a standard action.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Power Resistance
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 5
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material and visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Touch
\par }{\b Target:}{ Creature touched
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 min./level
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will negates (harmless)
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes (harmless)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 9
\par The creature gains power resistance equal to 12 + your manifester level. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Precognition
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience
\par }{\b Level:}{ Seer 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 10 min./level
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par }{\i Precognition }{allows your mind to glimpse fragments of potential future events\emdash 
what you see will probably happen if no one takes action to change it. However, your vision is incomplete, and it makes no real sense until the actual events you glimpsed begin to unfold. That\rquote s when everything begins t
o come together, and you can act, if you act swiftly, on the information you previously received when you manifested this power. 
\par In practice, manifesting this power grants you a \'93precognitive edge.\'94 Normally, you can have only a single precognitive edge a
t one time. You must use your edge within a period of no more than 10 minutes per level, at which time your preknowledge fades and you lose your edge.
\par You can use your precognitive edge in a variety of ways. Essentially, the edge translates into a +2 insig
ht bonus that you can apply at any time to either an attack roll, a damage roll, a saving throw, or a skill check. You can elect to apply the bonus to the roll after you determine that your unmodified roll is lower than desired.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Precognition, Defensive
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 1, psychic warrior 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material and visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 min./level (D)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par Your awareness extends a fraction of a second into the future, allowing you to better evade an opponent\rquote s blows.
\par You gain a +1 insight bonus to AC and on all saving throws. If caught in a situation where your Dexterity bonus isn\rquote t applied to your Armor Class, this bonus to AC and saving throws does not apply.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ You can augment this power in one or both of the following ways.
\par 1. For every 3 additional power points you spend, the insight bonus gained increases by 1.
\par 2. If you spend 6 additional power points, you can manifest this power as a swift action.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Precognition, Greater
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience
\par }{\b Level:}{ Seer 6
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory and visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 10 minutes
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 hour/level
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 11
\par As }{\i precognition, }{except as noted here. 
\par You gain a +4 insight bonus instead of a +2 bonus.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Precognition, Offensive
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 1, psychic warrior 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material and visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action; see text
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 min./level (D)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par Your awareness extends a fraction of a second into the future, allowing you to better land blows against your opponent. You gain a +1 insight bonus on your attack rolls.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ You can augment this power in one or both of the following ways.
\par 1. For every 3 additional power points you spend, the insight bonus gained on your attack rolls increases by 1.
\par 2. If you spend 6 additional power points, you can manifest this power as a swift action.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Prescience, Offensive
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 1, psychic warrior 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material and visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 min./level (D)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par Your awareness extends a fraction of a second into the future, allowing you to better aim blows against your opponent. You gain a +2 insight bonus on your damage rolls.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ You can augment this power in one or both of the following ways.
\par 1. For every 3 additional power points you spend, the insight bonus gained on your attack rolls increases by 1. 
\par 2. If you spend 6 additional power points, you can manifest this power as a swift action.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Prevenom
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism (Creation)
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psychic warrior 1
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 min./level or until discharged
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par If you have a claw attack (either from an actual natural weapon or from an effect such as }{\i claws of the beast}{
), you can use this power to produce a mild venom that coats one of your claws. On your next successful melee attack, the venom deals 2 points of
 Constitution damage. A target struck by the poison can make a Fortitude save (DC 10 + 1/2 your manifester level + your key ability modifier) to negate the damage.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every 6 additional power points you spend, this power\rquote s Constitution damage increases by 2 points.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Prevenom Weapon
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism (Creation)
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psychic warrior 1
\par }{\b Range:}{ Touch
\par }{\b Target:}{ Weapon touched
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 1
\par As }{\i prevenom}{, except your weapon gains the poison coating as long as it remains in your grip.
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Prowess
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psychic warrior 2
\par }{\b Display:}{ Mental
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 immediate action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 3
\par If an enemy provokes an attack of opportunity from you, you can make the attack even if you\rquote ve already taken your allotted number of attacks of opportunity this round (usually one).
\par You can manifest this power instantly, quickly enough to gain an extra attack of opportunity in the same round. Manifesting this power is an immediate action, like manifesting a qui
ckened power, and it counts toward the normal limit of one quickened power per round.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psionic Blast
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 3
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ 30 ft.
\par }{\b Area:}{ 30-ft. cone-shaped burst
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will negates
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 5
\par The air ripples with the force of your mental attack, which blasts the minds of all creatures in range. }{\i Psionic blast }{stuns all affected creatures for 1 round.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every 2 additional power points you spend, the duration of the stun effect increases by 1 round.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psionic Lion\rquote s Charge
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psychic warrior 2
\par }{\b Display:}{ Mental
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 swift action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 3
\par You gain the powerful charging ability of a lion. When you charge, you can make a full attack in the same round.
\par You can manifest this power with an instant thought, quickly enough to gain the benefit of the power as you charge. Manif
esting the power is a swift action, like manifesting a quickened power, and it counts toward the normal limit of one quickened power per round. You cannot manifest this power when it isn\rquote t your turn.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every additional power point you spend, each of your attacks after a charge in the current round gains a circumstance bonus on damage equal to the number of additional points spent.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psionic Lock
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychoportation
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 2
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Touch
\par }{\b Target:}{ Door, chest, or portal touched, up to 30 sq. ft./level in size
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Permanent
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ No
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 3
\par A }{\i psionic lock }{manifested upon a door, chest, or portal psionically locks it. You can freely pass your own lock without affecting it; otherwise, a door or object secured with }{\i psionic lock }{can be opened only by breaking in or by a successful 
}{\i dispel psionics }{effect. Add +10 to the normal DC to break open a door or portal affected by this power.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psionic Repair Damage
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Metacreativity
\par }{\b Level:}{ Shaper 2
\par }{\b Display:}{ Material and visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Touch
\par }{\b Target:}{ Construct touched
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will negates (harmless)
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes (harmless)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 3
\par When 
laying your hands upon a construct that has at least 1 hit point remaining, you reknit its structure to repair damage it has taken. The power repairs 3d8 points of damage +1 point per manifester level. Constructs that are immune to psionics or magic canno
t be repaired in this fashion.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every 2 additional power points you spend, this power repairs an additional 1d8 points of damage.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psionic Revivify
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism (Healing) [Good]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Egoist 5
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Touch
\par }{\b Target:}{ Dead creature touched
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes (harmless)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 9, XP
\par }{\i Psionic revivify }{lets a manifester reconnect a corpse\rquote s psyche with its body, restoring life to a recently deceased creature. The power must be manifested within 1 round of the victim\rquote 
s death. Before the psyche of the deceased has completely left the body, this power halts its journey while repairing somewhat the damage to the body.
\par This power functions like the }{\i raisedead }{spell, except that the affected creature receives no level loss, no Constitution loss, and no loss of powers. 
\par The creature has \endash 1 hit points (but is stable) after being restored to life.
\par }{\i XP Cost: }{200 XP.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every 100 additional experience points that both you and the subject pay, the manifestation of this power can be delayed by 1 additional round.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psionic Scent
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psychic warrior 2
\par }{\b Display:}{ Mental
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 round/level
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 3
\par You gain an enhanced sense of smell, equivalent to the scent ability of some monsters. This ability allows you to detect approaching enemies, sniff out hidden foes, and track by sense of smell. With the scent ability, you can identify fam
iliar odors just as humanoids do familiar sights}{\i .
\par }{You can detect opponents within 30 feet by sense of smell. If the opponent is upwind, the range increases to 60 feet; if downwind, it drops to 15 feet. Strong scents, such as smoke or rotting garbage, can b
e detected at twice the ranges noted above. Overpowering scents, such as skunk musk or troglodyte stench, can be detected at triple normal range.
\par When you detect a scent, the exact location of the source is not revealed\emdash only its presence somewhere within r
ange. You can take a move action to note the direction of the scent. Whenever you come within 5 feet of the source, you pinpoint the source\rquote s location.
\par If you have the Track feat, you can follow tracks by smell, making a Wisdom (or Survival) check to find 
or follow a track. The typical DC for a fresh trail is 10 (no matter what kind of surface holds the scent). This DC increases or decreases depending on how strong the quarry\rquote 
s odor is, the number of creatures, and the age of the trail. For each hour that the trail is cold, the DC increases by 2. The ability otherwise follows the rules for the Track feat. If you are tracking with }{\i psionic scent, }{
you ignore the effects of surface conditions and poor visibility.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychic Chirurgery
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Telepath 9
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory, mental, and visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 10 minutes
\par }{\b Range:}{ Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b Target:}{ One creature
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will negates
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 17, XP; see text
\par You can repair psychic damage or grant another creature knowledge of powers you know, depending on the version of this power you manifest.
\par }{\i Repair Psychic Damage: }{You can remove any compulsions and charms affecting the subject. In fact, you can remove any instantaneous or permanent effect caused by a psychic power with }{\i psychic chirurgery}{. Unlike with }{\i aura alteration}{
, these effects end or are negated as soon as this power is manifested, with no need for another saving throw.
\par You can remove all negative levels affectin
g the subject, regardless of how it lost those levels, restoring it to the highest level it had previously attained. Also, you can restore levels lost to energy drain or a similar effect if the level drain occurred within a number of hours equal to your m
anifester level.
\par You can also remove all psionic effects penalizing the subject\rquote s ability scores, heal all ability damage, and remove any ability drain affecting the subject. }{\i Psychic chirurger}{y negates all forms of insanity, confusion, the effect of such po
wers as }{\i microcosm, }{and so on, but it does not restore levels or Constitution points lost due to death.
\par }{\i Transfer Knowledge: }{If desired, you can use this power to directly transfer knowledge of a power you know to another psionic character. You can give a ch
aracter knowledge of a power of any level that she can manifest, even if the power is not normally on the character\rquote s power list. Knowledge of powers gained through }{\i psychic chirurgery }{
does not count toward the maximum number of powers a character can know per level.
\par }{\i XP Cost: }{Each time you use psychic chirurgery to implant knowledge of a power in another creature, you pay an XP cost equal to 1,000 x the level of the power implanted. If you and the subject are both willing to do so, you can split this cost ev
enly.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychic Crush
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 5
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Close (25 ft. +5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b Target:}{ One creature
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Will partial; see text
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 9
\par Your will abruptly and brutally crushes the mental essence of any one creature, debilitating its acumen. The target must make a Will save with a +4 bonus or collapse unconscious and dying at \endash 1 hit points. If the target succeeds o
n the save, it takes 3d6 points of damage.
\par }{\b Augment:}{ For every 2 additional power points you spend, this power\rquote s damage increases by 1d6 points. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychic Reformation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b Level:}{ Psion/wilder 4
\par }{\b Display:}{ Auditory, mental, and visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 10 minutes
\par }{\b Range:}{ Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b Target:}{ One creature
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ None
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ No
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 7, XP; see text
\par When this power is manifested, the subject can choose to spend its most rece
ntly gained skill points differently (picking new skills and abandoning old ones if it chooses) and to choose a different feat from the one it selected when advancing from its previous level to its current level.
\par The subject can also choose to forget powers it acquired when advancing to its current level, replacing them with new ones.
\par The subject can undo decisions of these sorts that were made at lower levels, if both the subject and the manifester agree to pay the necessary XP before this power is manifes
ted (see below). The subject must abide by the standard rules for selecting skills and feats, and so it cannot take feats for which it doesn\rquote t qualify or take crossclass skills as class skills.
\par }{\i XP Cost: }{This power costs 50 XP to manifest to reformat choice
s made when the character reached her current level. For each additional previous level into which the revision reaches, the power costs an additional 50 XP. The manifester and subject split all XP costs evenly.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychic Vampire
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism
\par }{\b Level:}{ Egoist 4, psychic warrior 4
\par }{\b Display:}{ Mental
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Touch
\par }{\b Target:}{ Creature touched
\par }{\b Duration:}{ Instantaneous
\par }{\b Saving Throw:}{ Fortitude negates
\par }{\b Power Resistance:}{ Yes
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 7
\par This power shrouds your hand or a natural weapon you possess with darkness that you can use to drain an opponent\rquote s power.
\par If you manifest this power to affect your hand, the next successful melee touch attack you make (if the victim fails its Fortitude save) drains 2 power points from your foe for ever
y manifester level you have. The drained points simply dissipate. Your touch attack, charged with psionic power, is treated as an armed attack.
\par If you manifest this power to affect a natural weapon you possess, you must make a successful melee attack with the weapon to gain the power\rquote s benefit.
\par Against a psionic being that has no power points or a nonpsionic foe, your attack instead deals 2 points of Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma damage (your choice).
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychofeedback
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism
\par }{\b Level:}{ Egoist 5, psychic warrior 5
\par }{\b Display:}{ Visual
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ 1 standard action
\par }{\b Range:}{ Personal
\par }{\b Target:}{ You
\par }{\b Duration:}{ 1 round/level (D)
\par }{\b Power Points:}{ 9
\par You can readjust your body to boost one physical ability score at the expense of one or more other scores. Select on
e ability score you would like to boost, and increase it by the same amount that you decrease one or more other scores. All score decreases are treated as a special form of ability damage, called ability burn, which cannot be magically or psionically heal
ed\emdash it goes away only through natural healing.
\par You can boost your Strength, Dexterity or Constitution score by an amount equal to your manifester level (or any lesser amount), assuming you can afford to burn your other ability scores to such an extent.
\par When the duration of this power expires, your ability boost also ends, but your ability burn remains until it is healed naturally.}{
\par }}