{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New{\*\falt Courier};}{\f200\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f201\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f203\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f204\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f205\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f206\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f207\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f216\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f217\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr{\*\falt Courier};}{\f219\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek{\*\falt Courier};}{\f220\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f221\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier};}{\f222\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic){\*\falt Courier};}{\f223\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic{\*\falt Courier};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{\s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 5;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Preformatted;}}{\info{\title PSIONIC FEATS}{\author asmith}{\operator asmith}{\creatim\yr2004\mo4\dy7\hr11\min7}{\revtim\yr2004\mo4\dy15\hr13\min31}{\version3}{\edmins0}
{\nofpages13}{\nofwords7192}{\nofchars-32766}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8229}}\margl1080\margr1080\margt1080\margb1080 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace78\dgvspace180\dghorigin1080\dgvorigin1080\dghshow2\dgvshow2
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 
This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{\f0\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {PSIONIC FEATS
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {Psionic feats are available only to characters and creatures with the ability to manifest powers. (In other words, they either have a power point reserve or have psi-like abilities.)
\par Because psionic feats are supernatural abilities\emdash a departure from the general rule that feats do not grant supernatural abilities\emdash 
they cannot be disrupted in combat (as powers can be) and generally do not provoke attacks of opportunity (except as noted in their descriptions). Supernatural abilities are not subject to power resi
stance and cannot be dispelled; however, they do not function in areas where psionics is suppressed, such as a }{\i null psionics field. }{Leaving such an area immediately allows psionic feats to be used.
\par Many psionic feats can be used only when you are psionical
ly focused; others require you to expend your psionic focus to gain their benefit. Expending your psionic focus does not require an action; it is part of another action (such as using a feat). When you expend your psionic focus, it applies only to the act
ion for which you expended it.
\par }\pard\plain \s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel4\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs28 
\par }{PSIONIC ITEM CREATION FEATS
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Manifesters can use their personal power to create lasting psionic 
items. Doing so, however, is draining. A manifester must put a little of himself or herself into every psionic item he or she creates.
\par A psionic item creation feat lets a manifester create a psionic item of a certain type. Regardless of the type of items they involve, the various item creation feats all have certain features in common.
\par }{\b XP Cost:}{ Power and energy that the manifester would normally keep is expended when making a psionic item. The experience point cost of using a psionic item creation feat equa
ls 1/25 the cost of the item in gold pieces. A character cannot spend so much XP on an item that he or she loses a level. However, upon gaining enough XP to attain a new level, he or she can immediately expend XP on creating an item rather than keeping th
e XP to advance a level.
\par }{\b Raw Materials Cost:}{ Creating a psionic item requires costly components, most of which are consumed in the process. The cost of these materials equals 1/2 the cost of the item.
\par Using a psionic item creation feat also requires access to a laboratory or psionic workshop, special tools, and other equipment. A character generally has access to what he or she needs unless unusual circumstances apply (such as if he\rquote 
s traveling far from home).
\par }{\b Time:}{ The time to create a psionic item depends on the feat and the cost of the item. The minimum time is one day.
\par }{\b Item Cost:}{ Craft Dorje, Imprint Stone, and Scribe Tattoo create items that directly reproduce the effects of powers, and the strength of these items depends on their manifester level\emdash that i
s, a power from such an item has the strength it would have if manifested by a manifester of that level. Often, that is the minimum manifester level necessary to manifest the power. (Randomly discovered items usually follow this rule.) However, when makin
g such an item, the item\rquote s strength can be set higher than the minimum. Any time a character creates an item using a power augmented by spending additional power points, the character\rquote 
s effective manifester level for the purpose of calculating the item\rquote s co
st increases by 1 for each 1 additional power point spent. (Augmentation is a feature of many powers that allows the power to be amplified in various ways if additional power points are spent.) All other level-dependent parameters of the power forged into
 the item are set according to the effective manifester level.
\par The price of psionic items (and thus the XP cost and the cost of the raw materials) depends on the level of the power and a character\rquote s manifester level. The character\rquote s manifester level must be
 high enough that the item creator can manifest the power at the chosen level. To find the final price in each case, multiply the character\rquote s manifester level by the power level, then multiply the result by a constant, as shown below.
\par }{\i Power Stones: }{Base price = power level x manifester level x 25 gp
\par }{\i Psionic Tattoos: }{Base price = power level x manifester level x 50 gp
\par }{\i Dorjes: }{Base price = power level x manifester level x 750 gp
\par }{\b Extra Costs:}{ Any dorje, power stone, or psionic tattoo that stores a power with an XP cost also carries a commensurate cost. 
\par For psionic tattoos and power stones, the creator must pay the XP cost when creating the item. For a dorje, the creator must pay fifty times the XP cost. 
\par Some psionic items similarly incur extra costs in XP, as noted in their descriptions.
\par }\pard\plain \s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel4\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par METAPSIONIC FEATS
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {As a manifester\rquote 
s knowledge of psionics grows, he can learn to manifest powers in ways slightly different from how the powers were originally designed or learned. Of course, manifesting a power while using a
 metapsionic feat is more expensive than manifesting the power normally.
\par }{\b Manifesting Time:}{ Powers manifested using metapsionic feats take the same time as manifesting the powers normally unless the feat description specifically says otherwise.
\par }{\b Manifestation Cost:}{ To use a metapsionic feat, a psionic character must both expend his psionic focus (see the Concentration skill description) and pay an increased power point cost as given in the feat description.
\par }{\b Limits on Use:}{ As with all powers, you cannot spend more power points on a power than your manifester level. Metapsionic feats merely let you manifest powers in different ways; they do not let you violate this rule. 
\par }{\b Effects of Metapsionic Feats on a Power:}{ In all ways, a metapsionic power operates at its o
riginal power level, even though it costs additional power points. The modifications to a power made by a metapsionic feat have only their noted effect on the power. A manifester can\rquote 
t use a metapsionic feat to alter a power being cast from a power stone, dorje, or other device.
\par Manifesting a power modified by the Quicken Power feat does not provoke attacks of opportunity.
\par Some metapsionic feats apply only to certain powers, as described in each specific feat entry.
\par }{\b Psionic Items and Metapsionic Powers:}{ With the right psionic item creation feat, you can store a metapsionic power in a power stone, psionic tattoo, or dorje. Level limits for psionic tattoos apply to the power\rquote s higher metapsionic level. 

\par A character doesn\rquote t need the appropriate metapsionic feat to activate an item in which a metapsionic power is stored, but does need the metapsionic feat to create such an item.
\par }{\fs36 
\par FEAT DESCRIPTIONS
\par }{These feat descriptions follow the standard format.
\par }{\fs24 
\par ALIGNED ATTACK }{[PSIONIC]
\par Your melee or ranged attack overcomes your opponent\rquote s alignment-based damage reduction and deals additional damage.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Base attack bonus +6.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ When you take this feat, choose either chaos, good, evil or law. (Your choice must match one of your alignment components. Once you\rquote ve made this alignment choice, it cannot be changed.
\par To use this feat, you must expend your psionic focus. When you make a successful melee or ranged attack, you deal an extra 1d6 points of damage, and your attack is treated as either a good, evil, chaotic, 
or lawful attack (depending on your original choice) for the purpose of overcoming damage reduction.
\par You must decide whether or not to use this feat prior to making an attack. If your attack misses, you still expend your psionic focus.
\par }{\fs24 
\par ANTIPSIONIC MAGIC }{[GENERAL]
\par Your spells are more potent when used against psionic characters and creatures.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Spellcraft 5 ranks.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ You get a get a +2 bonus on caster level checks made to overcome a psionic creature\rquote s power resistance.
\par This bonus stacks with the bonus conferred by Spell Penetration and Greater Spell Penetration. Moreover, whenever a psionic creature attempts to dispel a spell you cast, it makes its manifester level check against a DC of 13 + its manifester level.
\par The benefits of this feat apply only to power resistance. 
\par The bonus does not apply to spell resistance. This is an exception to the psionics\endash magic transparency rule.
\par }{\b Special:}{ You cannot take or use this feat if you have the ability to use powers (if you have a power point reserve or psi-like abilities).
\par }{\fs24 
\par AUTONOMOUS }{[GENERAL]
\par You have a knack for psionic self-sufficiency.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ You get a +2 bonus on all Autohypnosis checks and Knowledge (psionics) checks.
\par }{\fs24 
\par BODY FUEL }{[PSIONIC]
\par You can expand your power point total at the expense of your health.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ You can recover 2 power points by taking 1 point of ability burn damage to each of your three ability scores: Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution.
\par You can recover additional power points for a proportional cost to Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution. These recovered points are added to your power point reserve as if you had gained them by resting overnight.
\par }{\b Special:}{ Only living creatures can use this feat. You can take advantage of this feat only while in your own body.
\par }{\fs24 
\par BOOST CONSTRUCT }{[PSIONIC]
\par Your astral constructs have more abilities.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ When you create an astral construct, you can give it one additional special ability from any menu that the construct currently has an ability from.
\par }{\fs24 
\par BURROWING POWER }{[METAPSIONIC]
\par Your powers sometimes bypass barriers.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ To use this feat, you must expend your psionic focus. You can attempt to manifest your powers against targets that are sheltered behind a wall or force effect. Your power briefly skips through the Astral Plane to bypass the barrier.
\par The strength and thickness of the barrier determine your chance of success. To successfully bypass the barrier with your power, you make a Psicraft check against a DC equal to 10 + th
e hardness of the barrier + 1 per foot of thickness (minimum 1). Assign a hardness of 20 to barriers without a hardness rating, such as force effects (or a }{\i wall of ectoplasm}{). Force walls or }{\i walls of ectoplasm }{
are assumed to have less than 1 foot of thickness unless noted otherwise.
\par If a power requires line of sight (which includes most powers that affect a target or targets instead of an area), you cannot manifest it as a burrowing power unless you can somehow see the target, such as with }{\i clairvoyant sense}{
. Using this feat increases the power point cost of the power by 2. The power\rquote s total cost cannot exceed your manifester level.
\par }{\fs24 
\par CHAIN POWER }{[METAPSIONIC]
\par You can manifest powers that arc to hit other targets in addition to the primary target. 
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ To
 use this feat, you must expend your psionic focus. You can chain any power that affects a single target and that deals either acid, cold, electricity, fire, or sonic damage. After the primary target is struck, the power can arc to a number of secondary t
argets equal to your manifester level (maximum twenty). The secondary arcs each strike one target and deal half as much damage as the primary one did (round down).
\par Each target gets to make a saving throw, if one is allowed by the power. You choose secondary
 targets as you like, but they must all be within 30 feet of the primary target, and no target can be struck more than once. You can choose to affect fewer secondary targets than the maximum (to avoid allies in the area, for example).
\par Using this feat increases the power point cost of the power by 6. The power\rquote s total cost cannot exceed your manifester level.
\par }{\fs24 
\par CHAOTIC MIND }{[GENERAL]
\par The turbulence of your thoughts prevents others from gaining insight into your actions.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Chaotic alignment, Cha 15.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ Creatures and characters who have an insight bonus on their attack rolls, an insight bonus to their Armor Class, or an insight bonus on skill checks or ability checks do not gain those bonuses against you.
\par The benefit of this feat applies only to insight bonuses gained from psionic powers and psi-like abilities. This is an exception to the psionics\endash magic transparency rule.
\par }{\b Special:}{ You cannot take or use this feat if you have the ability to use powers (if you have a power point reserve or psi-like abilities).
\par }{\fs24 
\par CLOAK DANCE }{[GENERAL]
\par You are skilled at using optical tricks to make yourself seem to be where you are not.
\par }{\b Prerequisites:}{ Hide 10 ranks, Perform (dance) 2 ranks.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ You can take a move action to obscure your
 exact position. Until your next turn, you have concealment. Alternatively, you can take a full-round action to entirely obscure your exact position. Until your next action, you have total concealment.
\par }{\fs24 
\par CLOSED MIND }{[GENERAL]
\par Your mind is better able to resist psionics than normal.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ You get a +2 bonus on all saving throws to resist powers.
\par The benefit of this feat applies only to psionic powers and psi-like abilities. This is an exception to the psionics\endash magic transparency rule.
\par }{\b Special:}{ You cannot take or use this feat if you have the ability to use powers (if you have a power point reserve or psi-like abilities).
\par }{\fs24 
\par COMBAT MANIFESTATION }{[PSIONIC]
\par You are adept at manifesting powers in combat.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ You get a +4 bonus on Concentration checks made to manifest a power or use a psi-like ability while on the defensive or while you are grappling or pinned.
\par }{\fs24 
\par CRAFT COGNIZANCE CRYSTAL }{[ITEM CREATION]
\par You can create psionic }{\i cognizance crystals }{that store power points.
\par }{\b Prerequisite: }{Manifester level 3rd.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ You can create a }{\i cognizance crystal}{. Doing so takes one day for each 1,000 gp in its base price. The base price of a }{\i cognizance crystal }{is equal to the highest-level power it could manifest using all i
ts stored power points, squared, multiplied by 1,000 gp. To create a }{\i cognizance crystal}{, you must spend 1/25 of its base price in XP and use up raw materials costing one-half its base price.
\par }{\fs24 
\par CRAFT DORJE }{[ITEM CREATION]
\par You can create slender crystal wands called dorjes than manifest powers when charges are expended.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Manifester level 5th.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ You can create a dorje of any psionic power you know (barring exceptions, such as }{\i bestow power}{, as noted in a power\rquote s description). Crafting a dorje
 takes one day for each 1,000 gp in its base price. The base price of a dorje is its manifester level x the power level x 750 gp. To craft a dorje, you must spend 1/25 of this base price in XP and use up raw materials costing one-half of this base price.

\par A newly created dorje has 50 charges.
\par Any dorje that stores a power with an XP cost also carries a commensurate cost. In addition to the XP cost derived from the base price, you must pay fifty times the XP cost.
\par }{\fs24 
\par CRAFT PSICROWN }{[ITEM CREATION]
\par You can create psicrowns, which have multiple psionic effects.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Manifester level 12th.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ You can create any psicrown whose prerequisites you meet. Crafting a psicrown takes one day for each 1,000 gp in its base price. To craft a psicrown, you must 
spend 1/25 of its base price in XP and use up raw materials costing one-half of its base price. Some psicrowns incur extra costs in XP as noted in their descriptions. These costs are in addition to those derived from the psicrown\rquote s base price.

\par }{\fs24 
\par CRAFT PSIONIC ARMS AND ARMOR }{[ITEM CREATION]
\par You can create psionic weapons, armor, and shields.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Manifester level 5th.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ You can create any psionic weapon, armor, or shield whose prerequisites you meet. Enhancing a weapon, suit of armor, or shiel
d takes one day for each 1,000 gp in the price of its psionic features. To enhance a weapon, you must spend 1/25 of its features\rquote  total price in XP and use up raw materials costing one-half of this total price.
\par The weapon, armor, or shield to be enhanced must be a masterwork item that you provide. Its cost is not included in the above cost.
\par You can also mend a broken psionic weapon, suit of armor, or shield if it is one that you could make. Doing so costs half the XP, half the raw materials, and half the time it would take to enhance that item in the first place.
\par }{\fs24 
\par CRAFT PSIONIC CONSTRUCT }{[ITEM CREATION]
\par You can create golems and other psionic automatons that obey your orders.
\par }{\b Prerequisites:}{ Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, Craft Universal Item.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ You can create any psionic construct whose prerequisites you meet. Creating a construct takes one day for each 1,000 gp in its base price. To create a construct, you must spend 1/25 of the construct\rquote 
s base price in XP and use up raw materials costing one-half of this price. A newly created construct has average hit points for its Hit Dice.
\par }{\fs24 
\par CRAFT UNIVERSAL ITEM }{[ITEM CREATION]
\par You can create universal psionic items.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Manifester level 3rd.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ You can create any universal psionic item whose prerequisites you meet. Crafting a universal psionic item takes one day for each 1,000 gp in its base price. To craft a universal psionic item, you must spend 1/25 of the item\rquote 
s base price in XP and use up raw materials costing one-half of this price.
\par You can also mend a broken universal item if it is one that you could make. Doing so costs half the XP, half the raw materials, and half the time it would take to craft that item in the first place.
\par Some universal items incur extra costs in XP, as noted in their descriptions. These costs are in addition to those derived from the item\rquote s base price. You must pay such a cost to create an item or to mend a broken one.
\par }{\fs24 
\par DEADLY PRECISION }{[GENERAL]
\par You empty your mind of all distracting emotion, becoming an instrument of deadly precision.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Dex 15, base attack bonus +5.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ You have deadly accuracy with your sneak attacks. You can reroll any result of 1 on your sneak attack\rquote s extra damage dice. You must keep the result of the reroll, even if it is another 1.
\par }{\fs24 
\par DEEP IMPACT }{[PSIONIC]
\par You can strike your foe with a melee weapon as if making a touch attack.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Str 13, Psionic Weapon, base attack bonus +5.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ To use this feat, you must expend your psionic focus. You can resolve your attack with a m
elee weapon as a touch attack. You must decide whether or not to use this feat prior to making an attack. If your attack misses, you still expend your psionic focus.
\par }{\fs24 
\par DELAY POWER }{[METAPSIONIC]
\par You can manifest powers that go off up to 5 rounds later.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ To use this feat, you must expend your psionic focus. You can manifest a power as a delayed power. A delayed power doesn\rquote 
t activate immediately. When you manifest the power, you choose one of three trigger mechanisms: (1) The power activates when you t
ake a standard action to activate it; (2) It activates when a creature enters the area that the power will affect (only powers that affect areas can use this trigger condition); or (3) It activates on your turn after 5 rounds pass. If you choose one of th
e first two triggers and the conditions are not met within 5 rounds, the power activates automatically on the fifth round.
\par Only area and personal powers can be delayed.
\par Any decisions you would make about the delayed power, including attack rolls, designatin
g targets, or determining or shaping an area, are decided when the power is manifested. Any effects resolved by those affected by the power, including saving throws, are decided when the delay period ends.
\par A delayed power can be dispelled normally during the delay, and can be detected normally in the area or on the target by the use of powers that can detect psionic effects. 
\par Using this feat increases the power point cost of the power by 2. The power\rquote s total cost cannot exceed your manifester level.
\par }{\fs24 
\par EMPOWER POWER }{[METAPSIONIC]
\par You can manifest powers to greater effect.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ To use this feat, you must expend your psionic focus.
\par You can empower a power. All variable, numeric effects of an empowered power are increased by one-half. An empowered power deals
 half again as much damage as normal, cures half again as many hit points, affects half again as many targets, and so forth, as appropriate. Augmented powers can also be empowered (multiply 1-1/2 times the damage total of the augmented power). Saving thro
ws and opposed checks (such as the one you make when you manifest }{\i dispel psionics}{) are not affected, nor are powers without random variables.
\par Using this feat increases the power point cost of the power by 2. The power\rquote s total cost cannot exceed your manifester level.
\par }{\fs24 
\par ENLARGE POWER }{[METAPSIONIC]
\par You can manifest powers farther than normal.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ To use this feat, you must expend your psionic focus. You can alter a power with a range of close, medium, or long to increase its range by 100%. An enlarged powe
r with a range of close has a range of 50 feet + 5 feet per level, a medium-range power has a range of 200 feet + 20 feet per level, and a long-range power has a range of 800 feet + 80 feet per level.
\par Powers whose ranges are not defined by distance, as well as powers whose ranges are not close, medium, or long, are
\par not affected.
\par Using this feat does not increase the power point cost of the power.
\par }{\fs24 
\par EXPANDED KNOWLEDGE }{[PSIONIC]
\par You learn another power.
\par }{\b Prerequisites:}{ Manifester level 3rd.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ Add to your powers known one additional power of any level up to one level lower than the highest-level power you can manifest. You can choose any power, including powers from another discipline\rquote s list or even from another class
\rquote s list.
\par }{\b Special:}{ You can gain this feat multiple times. Each time, you learn one new power at any level up to one less than the highest-level power you can manifest.
\par }{\fs24 
\par EXTEND POWER }{[METAPSIONIC]
\par You can manifest powers that last longer than normal.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ To use this feat, you must expend your psionic focus.
\par You can manifest an extended power. An extended power lasts twice as long as normal. A power with a duration of concentration, instantaneous, or permanent is not affected by this feat.
\par Using this feat increases the power point cost of the power by 2. The power\rquote s total cost cannot exceed your manifester level.
\par }{\fs24 
\par FELL SHOT }{[PSIONIC]
\par You can strike your foe with a ranged weapon as if making a touch attack.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Dex 13, Point Blank Shot, Psionic Shot, base attack bonus +5.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ To use this feat, you must expend your psionic focus. You can resolve your ranged attack as a ranged touch attack.
\par You must decide whether or not to use this feat prior to making an attack. If your attack misses, you still expend your psionic focus.
\par }{\fs24 
\par FOCUSED SUNDER }{[PSIONIC]
\par You can sense the stress points on others\rquote  weapons.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Str 13, Power Attack, Improved Sunder.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ To use this feat, you must expend your psionic focus.
\par When you strike at an opponent\rquote s weapon, you ignore half of the weapon\rquote s total hardness (round down). Total hardness includes any magical or psionic enhancements possessed by the weapon that increase its hardness.
\par }{\b Special:}{ You can also sense the stress points in any hard construction, such as wooden doors or stone walls, and can ignore half of the object\rquote s total hardness (round down) when attacking that object.
\par }{\fs24 
\par FORCE OF WILL }{[GENERAL]
\par You are able to resist psionic attacks with extreme force of will.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Iron Will.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ Once per round, when targeted by a psionic effect that allows a Reflex save or a Fortitude save, you can instead make a Will saving throw to avoid the effect.
\par The benefit of this feat applies only to psionic powers and psi-like abilities. This is an exception to the psionics\endash magic transparency rule.
\par }{\b Special:}{ You cannot take or use this feat if you have the ability to use powers (if you have a power point reserve or psi-like abilities).
\par }{\fs24 
\par GHOST ATTACK }{[PSIONIC]
\par Your deadly strikes against incorporeal foes always find their mark.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Base attack bonus +3.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ You must be psionically focused to use this feat. When you make a melee attack or a ranged at
tack against an incorporeal creature, you can make two rolls to check for the miss chance. If either is successful, the attack is treated as if it were made with a ghost touch weapon for the purpose of affecting the creature. Your weapon or natural weapon
 actually appears to become briefly incorporeal as the attack is made.
\par }{\fs24 
\par GREATER MANYSHOT }{[GENERAL]
\par You are skilled at firing many arrows at once, even at different opponents.
\par }{\b Prerequisites:}{ Dex 17, Manyshot, Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot, base attack bonus +6.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{
 When you use the Manyshot feat, you can fire each arrow at a different target instead of firing all of them at the same target. You make a separate attack roll for each arrow, regardless of whether you fire them at separate targets or the same 
target. Your precision-based damage applies to each arrow fired, and, if you score a critical hit with more than one of the arrows, each critical hit deals critical damage.
\par }{\b Special:}{ A fighter may select this feat as one of his fighter bonus feats.
\par }{\fs24 
\par GREATER POWER PENETRATION }{[PSIONIC]
\par Your powers are especially potent at breaking through power resistance.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Power Penetration.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ To use this feat, you must expend your psionic focus. You get a +4 bonus on manifester level checks to overcome a creature\rquote s power resistance. This bonus stacks with the bonus from Power Penetration.
\par }{\fs24 
\par GREATER POWER SPECIALIZATION }{[PSIONIC]
\par You deal more damage with your powers.
\par }{\b Prerequisites:}{ Power Specialization, Weapon Focus (ray), manifester level 12th.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ Y
our powers that deal damage deal an extra 2 points of damage. This damage stacks with other bonuses on damage rolls to powers, including the one from Power Specialization. The damage bonus applies only if the target or targets are within 30 feet.
\par }{\fs24 
\par GREATER PSIONIC ENDOWMENT }{[PSIONIC]
\par You can use meditation to focus your powers.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Psionic Endowment.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ When you use the Psionic Endowment feat, you add +2 to the save DC of a power you manifest instead of +1.
\par }{\fs24 
\par GREATER PSIONIC FIST }{[PSIONIC]
\par You can charge your unarmed strike or natural weapon with additional damage potential.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Str 13, Psionic Fist, base attack bonus +5.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ When you use the Psionic Fist feat, your unarmed attack or attack with a natural weapon deals an extra 4d6 points of damage instead of an extra 2d6 points.
\par }{\fs24 
\par GREATER PSIONIC SHOT }{[PSIONIC]
\par You can charge your ranged attacks with additional damage potential.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Point Blank Shot, Psionic Shot, base attack bonus +5.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ When you use the Psionic Shot feat, your ranged attack deals an extra 4d6 points of damage instead of an extra 2d6 points.
\par }{\fs24 
\par GREATER PSIONIC WEAPON }{[PSIONIC]
\par You can charge your melee weapon with additional damage potential.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Str 13, Psionic Weapon, base attack bonus +5.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ When you use the Psionic Weapon feat, your attack with a melee weapon deals an extra 4d6 points of damage instead of an extra 2d6 points.
\par }{\fs24 
\par HOSTILE MIND }{[GENERAL]
\par Your mind recoils violently against those who use psionics against you.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Cha 15.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ Whenever you are subject to a power from the telepathy discipline (regardless of whether the power is harmful or beneficial to you), the manifester must make a Will saving throw against a DC of 10 + 1/2 your character level + your Cha
risma bonus or take 2d6 points of damage.
\par The benefit of this feat applies only to psionic powers and psi-like abilities. This is an exception to the psionics\endash magic transparency rule.
\par }{\b Special:}{ You cannot take or use this feat if you have the ability to use powers (if you have a power point reserve or psi-like abilities).
\par }{\fs24 
\par IMPRINT STONE }{[ITEM CREATION]
\par You can create power stones to store psionic powers.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Manifester level 1st.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ You can create a power stone of any power that you know. Enc
oding a power stone takes one day for each 1,000 gp in its base price. The base price of a power stone is the level of the stored power x its manifester level x 25 gp. To imprint a power stone, you must spend 1/25 of this base price in XP and use up raw m
aterials costing one-half of this base price.
\par Any power stone that stores a power with an XP cost also carries a commensurate cost. In addition to the costs derived from the base price, you must pay the XP when encoding the stone.
\par }{\fs24 
\par IMPROVED PSICRYSTAL }{[PSIONIC]
\par You can upgrade your psicrystal.
\par }{\b Prerequisites:}{ Psicrystal Affinity.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ You can implant another personality fragment in your psicrystal. You gain the benefits of both psicrystal personalities. Your psicrystal\rquote 
s personality adjusts and becomes a blend between all implanted personality fragments. From now on, when determining the abilities of your psicrystal, treat your manifester level as one higher than your normal manifester level.
\par }{\b Special:}{ You can gain this feat multiple times. Each time, you implant a new personality fragment in your psicrystal, from which you derive the noted benefits, and you treat your level as one higher for the purpose of determining your psicrystal
\rquote s abilities.
\par 
\par }{\fs24 INQUISITOR }{[PSIONIC] 
\par You know when others lie.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Wis 13.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ To use this feat, you must expend your psionic focus.
\par You gain a +10 bonus on a Sense Motive check to oppose a Bluff check.
\par You must decide whether or not to use this feat prior to making a Sense Motive check. If your check fails, or if the opponent isn\rquote t lying, you still expend your psionic focus. 
\par 
\par }{\fs24 MAXIMIZE POWER }{[METAPSIONIC]
\par You can manifest powers to maximum effect.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ To use this feat, you must expend your psionic focus.
\par You can maximize a p
ower. All variable, numeric effects of a power modified by this feat are maximized. A maximized power deals maximum damage, cures the maximum number of hit points, affects the maximum number of targets, and so on, as appropriate. Saving throws and opposed
 checks are not affected, nor are powers without random variables.
\par Augmented powers can be maximized; a maximized augmented power deals the maximum damage (or cures the maximum hit points, and so on) of the augmented power.
\par An empowered and maximized power gains the separate benefits of each feat: the maximum result plus one-half the normally rolled result.
\par Using this feat increases the power point cost of the power by 4. The power\rquote s total cost cannot exceed your manifester level.
\par }{\fs24 
\par MENTAL LEAP }{[PSIONIC]
\par You can make amazing jumps.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Str 13, Jump 5 ranks.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ To use this feat, you must expend your psionic focus. You gain a +10 bonus on a Jump check. 
\par 
\par }{\fs24 MENTAL RESISTANCE }{[GENERAL]
\par Your mind is armored against mental intrusion.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Base Will save bonus +2.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ Against psionic attacks that do not employ an energy type to deal damage you gain damage reduction 3/\endash . In addition, when you are hit with ability damage (but not ability drain or ability burn damage) from a psionic attac
k, you take 3 points less than you would normally take.
\par The benefit of this feat applies only to psionic powers and psi-like abilities. This is an exception to the psionics\endash magic transparency rule.
\par }{\b Special:}{ You cannot take or use this feat if you have the ability to use powers (if you have a power point reserve or psi-like abilities).
\par }{\fs24 
\par METAMORPHIC TRANSFER }{[PSIONIC]
\par You can gain a supernatural ability of a metamorphed form.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Wis 13, manifester level 5th.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ Each time you change your form, such as through the }{\i metamorphosis }{power, you gain one of the new form\rquote s supernatural abilities, if it has any.
\par You gain only three uses of the metamorphic ability per day, even if the creature into which y
ou metamorph has a higher limit on uses (You are still subject to other restrictions on the use of the ability.) The save DC to resist a supernatural ability gained through Metamorphic Transfer (if it is an attack) is 10 + your Cha modifier + 1/2 your Hit
 Dice.
\par }{\b Normal:}{ You cannot use the supernatural abilities of creatures whose form you assume.
\par }{\b Special:}{ You can gain this feat multiple times. Each time, you can gain one additional supernatural ability.
\par }{\fs24 
\par MIND OVER BODY }{[GENERAL]
\par Your ability damage heals more rapidly.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Con 13.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ You heal ability damage and ability burn damage more quickly than normal. You heal a number of ability points per day equal to 1 + your Constitution bonus. 
\par }{\b Normal:}{ You heal ability damage and ability burn damage at a rate of 1 point per day.
\par }{\fs24 
\par NARROW MIND }{[PSIONIC]
\par Your ability to concentrate is as keen as an arrowhead, allowing you to gain your psionic focus even in the most turbulent situations.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Wis 13.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ You gain a +4 bonus on Concentration checks you make to become psionically focused.
\par }{\fs24 
\par OPEN MINDED }{[GENERAL]
\par You are naturally able to reroute your memory, mind, and skill expertise.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ You immediately gain an extra 5 skill points. You spend these skill points as normal. If you spend them on a cross-class skills they count as 1/2 ranks. You cannot exceed the normal maximum ranks for your level in any skill. 
\par }{\b Special:}{ You can gain this feat multiple times. Each time, you immediately gain another 5 skill points.
\par }{\fs24 
\par OPPORTUNITY POWER }{[METAPSIONIC]
\par You can make power-enhanced attacks of opportunity.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ To use this feat, you must expend your psionic focus. When you make an attack of opportunity, you can use any power you know with a range of touch, if you have at least one hand free.
\par Manifesting this power is an immediate action.
\par You cannot use this feat with a touch power whose manifesting time is longer than 1 full-round action.
\par Using this feat increases the power point cost of the power by 6. The power\rquote s total cost cannot exceed your manifester level.
\par }{\b Normal:}{ Attacks of opportunity can be made only with melee weapons.
\par }{\fs24 
\par OVERCHANNEL }{[PSIONIC]
\par You burn your life force to strengthen your powers.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ While manifesting a power, you can increase your effective manifester level by one, 
but in so doing you take 1d8 points of damage. At 8th level, you can choose to increase your effective manifester level by two, but you take 3d8 points of damage. At 15th level, you can increase your effective manifester level by three, but you take 5d8 p
oints of damage.
\par The effective increase in manifester level increases the number of power points you can expend on a single power manifestation, as well as increasing all manifester level-dependent effects, such as range, duration, and overcoming power resistance.
\par }{\b Normal:}{ Your manifester level is equal to your total levels in classes that manifest powers.
\par }{\fs24 
\par POWER PENETRATION }{[PSIONIC]
\par Your powers are especially potent, breaking through power resistance more readily than normal.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ To use this feat, you must expend your psionic focus. You get a +4 bonus on manifester level checks made to overcome a creature\rquote s power resistance.
\par }{\fs24 
\par POWER SPECIALIZATION }{[PSIONIC]
\par You deal more damage with your powers.
\par }{\b Prerequisites:}{ Weapon Focus (ray), manifester level 4th.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{
 With rays and ranged touch attack powers that deal damage, you deal an extra 2 points of damage. If you expend your psionic focus when you manifest a ray or a ranged touch attack power that deals damage, you add your key ability bonus to the damage 
(instead of adding 2).
\par }{\fs24 
\par PSICRYSTAL AFFINITY }{[PSIONIC]
\par You have created a psicrystal.
\par }{\b Prerequisites:}{ Manifester level 1st.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ This feat allows you to gain a psicrystal.
\par }{\fs24 
\par PSICRYSTAL CONTAINMENT }{[PSIONIC]
\par Your psicrystal has advanced enough that it can hold a psionic focus that you store within it.
\par }{\b Prerequisites:}{ Psicrystal Affinity, manifester level 3rd.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ You can spend a full-round action attempting to psionically focus your psicrystal. At any time when you need to expend your psionic focus, you can expend your psicrystal\rquote 
s psionic focus instead, as long as the crystal is within 5 feet of you. Psionically focusing your psicrystal works just like focusing yourself. The psicrystal cannot focus itself\emdash only the owner can spend the time to focus the crystal.
\par }{\fs24 
\par PSIONIC AFFINITY }{[GENERAL]
\par You have a knack for psionic endeavors.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ You get a +2 bonus on all Psicraft checks and Use Psionic Device checks.
\par }{\fs24 
\par PSIONIC BODY }{[PSIONIC]
\par Your mind reinforces your body.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ When you take this feat, you gain 2 hit points for each psionic feat you have (including this one). Whenever you take a new psionic feat, you gain 2 more hit points. 
\par 
\par }{\fs24 PSIONIC CHARGE }{[PSIONIC]
\par You can charge in a crooked line.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Dex 13, Speed of Thought.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ To use this feat, you must expend your psionic focus. When you charge, you can make one turn of up to 90 degrees during your movement. 
All other restrictions on charges still apply; for instance, you cannot pass through a square that blocks or slows movement, or that contains a creature. You must have line of sight to the opponent at the start of your turn.
\par }{\fs24 
\par PSIONIC DODGE }{[PSIONIC]
\par You are proficient at dodging blows.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Dex 13, Dodge.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ You must be psionically focused to use this feat. You receive a +1 dodge bonus to your Armor Class. This bonus stacks with the bonus from the Dodge feat (but only applies on attacks made by the opponent you have designated).
\par }{\fs24 
\par PSIONIC ENDOWMENT }{[PSIONIC]
\par You can endow your manifestations with more concentrated focus.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ To use this feat, you must expend your psionic focus. You add 1 to the save DC of a power you manifest.
\par }{\fs24 
\par PSIONIC FIST }{[PSIONIC]
\par You can charge your unarmed strike or natural weapon with additional damage potential.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Str 13.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ To use this feat, you must expend your psionic focus. Your unarmed strike or attack with a natural weapon deals an extra 2d6 points of damage.
\par You must decide whether or not to use this feat prior to making an attack. If your attack misses, you still expend your psionic focus.
\par }{\fs24 
\par PSIONIC HOLE }{[GENERAL]
\par You are anathema to psionic creatures and characters.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Con 15.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{
 When a foe strikes you in melee combat, the foe immediately loses its psionic focus, if any. Also, if you are the target of a power, the manifester of the power must spend an additional number of power points equal to your Wisdom bonus, or the power fail
s (all the power points spent on the power are still lost). This extra cost does not count toward the maximum power points a manifester can spend on a single power.
\par }{\b Special:}{ You cannot take or use this feat if you have the ability to use powers (if you have a power point reserve or psi-like abilities).
\par }{\fs24 
\par PSIONIC MEDITATION }{[PSIONIC]
\par You can focus your mind faster than normal, even under duress.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Wis 13, Concentration 7 ranks.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ You can take a move action to become psionically focused.
\par }{\b Normal:}{ A character without this feat must take a full-round action to become psionically focused.
\par }{\fs24 
\par PSIONIC SHOT }{[PSIONIC]
\par You can charge your ranged attacks with additional damage potential.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Point Blank Shot.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ To use this feat, you must expend your psionic focus. Your ranged attack deals +2d6 points of damage. You must decide whether or not to use this feat prior to making an attack. If your attack misses, you still expend your psionic focus.

\par }{\fs24 
\par PSIONIC TALENT }{[PSIONIC]
\par You gain additional power points to supplement those you already had.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Having a power point reserve.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ When you take this feat for the first time, you gain 2 power points.
\par }{\b Special:}{ You can take this feat multiple times. Each time you take the feat after the first time, the number of power points you gain increases by 1.
\par }{\fs24 
\par PSIONIC WEAPON }{[PSIONIC]
\par You can charge your melee weapon with additional damage potential.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Str 13.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ To use this feat, you must expend your psionic focus.
\par Your attack with a melee weapon deals an extra 2d6 points of damage. You must decide whether or not to use this feat prior to making an attack. If your attack misses, you still expend your psionic focus.
\par }{\fs24 
\par QUICKEN POWER }{[METAPSIONIC]
\par You can manifest a power with a moment\rquote s thought.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ To use this feat, you must expend your psionic focus. You can quicken a power. You can perform another action, even manifest another power, in the same round that you manifest a quickened power. Yo
u can manifest only one quickened power per round. A power whose manifesting time is longer than 1 round cannot be quickened.
\par Using this feat increases the power point cost of the power by 6. The power\rquote s total cost cannot exceed your manifester level.
\par Manifesting a quickened power does not provoke attacks of opportunity.
\par }{\fs24 
\par RAPID METABOLISM }{[GENERAL]
\par Your wounds heal rapidly.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Con 13.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ You naturally heal a number of hit points per day equal to the standard healing rate + double your Const
itution  bonus. You heal even if you do not rest. This healing replaces your normal natural healing. If you are tended successfully by someone with the Heal skill, you instead regain double the normal amount of hit points + double your Constitution bonus.

\par }{\fs24 
\par RECKLESS OFFENSE }{[GENERAL]
\par You can shift your focus from defense to offense.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Base attack bonus +1.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ When you use the attack action or full attack action in melee, you can take a penalty of \endash 4 to your Armor Class and add a +2 bonus on
 your melee attack roll. The bonus on attack rolls and penalty to Armor Class last until the beginning of your next turn.
\par }{\fs24 
\par RETURN SHOT }{[PSIONIC]
\par You can return incoming arrows, as well as crossbow bolts, spears, and other projectile or thrown weapons.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Point Blank Shot, Psionic Shot, Fell Shot, base attack bonus +3.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ To use this feat, you must expend your psionic focus and have at least one hand free. Once per round when you would normally be hit by a projectile or a thrown weapon no mo
re than one size category larger than your size, you can deflect the attack so that you take no damage from it. The attack is deflected back at your attacker, using the attack bonus of the original attack on you. You must be aware of the attack and not fl
at-footed. Attempting to return a shot is a free action.
\par }{\b Special:}{ If you also have the Deflect Arrows feat, the deflected attack is made with the original attack bonus plus your Dexterity bonus.
\par }{\fs24 
\par SCRIBE TATTOO }{[ITEM CREATION]
\par You can create psionic tattoos, which store powers within their designs.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Manifester level 3rd.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ You can create a psionic tattoo of any power of 3rd level or lower that you know and that targets one or more creatures. Scribing a psionic tattoo takes one day. When yo
u create a psionic tattoo, you set the manifester level. The manifester level must be sufficient to manifest the power in question and no higher than your own level. The base price of a psionic tattoo is its power level x its manifester level x 50 gp. To 
scribe a tattoo, you must spend 1/25 of this base price in XP and use up raw materials (special inks, masterwork needles, and so on) costing one-half of this base price.
\par When you create a psionic tattoo, you make any choices that you would normally make when manifesting the power.
\par When its wearer physically activates the tattoo, the wearer is the target of the power.
\par Any psionic tattoo that stores a power with an XP cost also carries a commensurate cost. In addition to the costs derived from the base price, you must pay the XP when creating the tattoo.
\par }{\fs24 
\par SIDESTEP CHARGE }{[PSIONIC]
\par You are skilled at dodging past charging opponents and taking advantage when they miss.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Dex 13, Dodge.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ You get a +4 dodge bonus to Armor Class against charge attacks. If a charging opponent fails to make a successful attack against you, you gain an immediate attack of oppo
rtunity. This feat does not grant you more attacks of opportunity than you are normally allowed in a round. If you are flat-footed or otherwise denied your Dexterity bonus to Armor Class, you do not gain the benefit of this feat.
\par }{\fs24 
\par SPEED OF THOUGHT }{[PSIONIC]
\par The energy of your mind energizes the alacrity of your body.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Wis 13.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ As long as you are psionically focused and not wearing heavy armor, you gain an insight bonus to your speed of 10 feet.
\par }{\fs24 
\par SPLIT PSIONIC RAY }{[METAPSIONIC]
\par You can affect two targets with a single ray.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Any other metapsionic feat.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ To use this feat, you must expend your psionic focus. You can split psionic rays you manifest. The split ray affects any two targets that are both within the power\rquote s ra
nge and within 30 feet of each other. If the ray deals damage, each target takes as much damage as a single target would take.
\par Using this feat increases the power point cost of the power by 2.
\par }{\fs24 
\par STAND STILL }{[GENERAL]
\par You can prevent foes from fleeing or closing.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Str 13.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ When a foe\rquote s movement out of a square you threaten grants you an attack of opportunity, you can give up that attack and instead attemp
t to stop your foe in his tracks. Make your attack of opportunity normally. If you hit your foe, he must succeed on a Reflex save against a DC of 10 + your damage roll (the opponent does not actually take damage), or immediately halt as if he had used up 
his move actions for the round.
\par Since you use the Stand Still feat in place of your attack of opportunity, you can do so only a number of times per round equal to the number of times per round you could make an attack of opportunity (normally just one).
\par }{\b Normal:}{ Attacks of opportunity cannot halt your foes in their tracks.
\par }{\fs24 
\par TALENTED }{[PSIONIC]
\par You can overchannel powers with less cost to yourself.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Overchannel.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ To use this feat, you must expend your psionic focus. When manifesting a power of 3rd level or lower, you do not take damage from overchanneling.
\par }{\fs24 
\par TWIN POWER }{[METAPSIONIC]
\par You can manifest a power simultaneously with another power just like it.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ To use this feat, you must expend your psionic focus. You can twin a power. Mani
festing a power altered by this feat causes the power to take effect twice on the area or target, as if you were simultaneously manifesting the same power two times on the same location or target. Any variables in the power (such as duration, number of ta
rgets, and so on) are the same for both of the resulting powers. The target experiences all the effects of both powers individually and receives a saving throw (if applicable) for each. In some cases, such as a twinned }{\i psionic charm}{
, failing both saving throws results in redundant effects (although, in this example, any ally of the target would have to succeed on two dispel attempts to free the target from the charm effect).
\par Using this feat increases the power point cost of the power by 6. The power\rquote s total cost cannot exceed your manifester level.
\par }{\fs24 
\par UNAVOIDABLE STRIKE }{[PSIONIC]
\par You can make an unarmed strike or use a natural weapon against your foe as if delivering a touch attack.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Str 13, Psionic Fist, base attack bonus +5.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ To use this feat, you must expend your psionic focus. You can resolve your unarmed strike or attack with a natural weapon as a touch attack.
\par You must decide whether or not to use this feat prior to making an attack. If your attack misses, you still expend your psionic focus.
\par }{\fs24 
\par UNCONDITIONAL POWER }{[METAPSIONIC]
\par Disabling conditions do not hold you back.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ To use this feat, you must expend your psionic focus. Your mental strength is enough to overcome some otherwise disabling conditions. You can manifest an unconditional power when you are dazed, }{\i confused, }{
nauseated, shaken, or stunned.
\par Only personal powers and powers that affect your person can be manifested as unconditional powers.
\par Using this feat increases the power point cost of the power by 8. The power\rquote s total cost cannot exceed your manifester level.
\par }{\fs24 
\par UP THE WALLS }{[PSIONIC]
\par You can run on walls for brief distances.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Wis 13.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ While you are psionically focused, you can take part of one of your move actions to traverse a wall or other relativ
ely smooth vertical surface if you begin and end your move on a horizontal surface. The height you can achieve on the wall is limited only by this movement restriction. If you do not end your move on a horizontal surface, you fall prone, taking falling da
m
age as appropriate for your distance above the ground. Treat the wall as a normal floor for the purpose of measuring your movement. Passing from floor to wall or wall to floor costs no movement; you can change surfaces freely. Opponents on the ground can 
make attacks of opportunity as you move up the wall.
\par }{\b Special:}{ You can take other move actions in conjunction with moving along a wall. For instance, the Spring Attack feat allows you to make an attack from the wall against a foe standing on the ground who i
s within the area you threaten; however, if you are somehow prevented from completing your move, you fall. Likewise, you could tumble along the wall to avoid attacks of opportunity.
\par }{\fs24 
\par WIDEN POWER }{[METAPSIONIC]
\par You can increase the area of your powers.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{
 To use this feat, you must expend your psionic focus. You can alter a burst, emanation, line, or spread-shaped power to increase its area. (Powers that do not have an area of one of these four sorts are not affected by this feat.) Any numeric measureme
nts of the power\rquote s area increase by 100%.
\par Using this feat increases the power point cost of the power by 4. The power\rquote s total cost cannot exceed your manifester level.
\par }{\fs24 
\par WILD TALENT }{[GENERAL]
\par Your mind wakes to a previously unrealized talent for psionics.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{
 Your latent power of psionics flares to life, conferring upon you the designation of a psionic character. As a psionic character, you gain a reserve of 2 power points and can take psionic feats, metapsionic feats, and psionic item creation feats. 
You do not, however, gain the ability to manifest powers simply by virtue of having this feat.
\par }{\fs24 
\par WOUNDING ATTACK }{[PSIONIC]
\par Your vicious attacks wound your foe.
\par }{\b Prerequisite:}{ Base attack bonus +8.
\par }{\b Benefit:}{ To use this feat, you must expend your psionic focus. You can make an attack with such vicious force that you wound your opponent. A wound deals 1 point of Constitution damage to your foe in addition to the usual damage dealt.
\par You must decide whether or not to use this feat prior to making an attack. If your attack misses, you still expend your psionic focus.
\par }}