{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New{\*\falt Courier};}{\f164\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f165\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f167\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f168\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f169\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f170\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f171\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f180\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f181\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr{\*\falt Courier};}{\f183\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek{\*\falt Courier};}{\f184\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f185\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier};}{\f186\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic){\*\falt Courier};}{\f187\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic{\*\falt Courier};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext15 Body Text;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 
Preformatted;}}{\info{\title CHOOSING A RACE}{\author AKSmith}{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2003\mo4\dy22\hr15\min32}{\revtim\yr2003\mo7\dy2\hr13\min26}{\version9}{\edmins12}{\nofpages3}{\nofwords1455}{\nofchars8296}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}
{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8283}}\margl1080\margr1080\margt1080\margb1080 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1080\dgvorigin1080\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 
This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{\f0\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0\fs36 RACES
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cf0 
\par FAVORED CLASS
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {A character\rquote s favored class doesn\rquote 
t count against him or her when determining experience point penalties for multiclassing. }{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cf0 
\par RACE AND LANGUAGES
\par }{\fs20\cf0 All characters know how to speak Comm
on. A dwarf, elf, gnome, half-elf, half-orc, or halfling also speaks a racial language, as appropriate. A character who has an Intelligence bonus at 1st level speaks other languages as well, one extra language per point of Intelligence bonus as a starting
 character. 
\par Literacy: Any character except a barbarian can read and write all the languages he or she speaks.
\par Class-Related Languages: Clerics, druids, and wizards can choose certain languages as bonus languages even if they\rquote re not on the lists found in the race descriptions. These class-related languages are as follows:
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Cleric: }{\fs20\cf0 Abyssal, Celestial, Infernal.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Druid: }{\fs20\cf0 Sylvan.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Wizard: }{\fs20\cf0 Draconic.
\par }{\cf0 
\par SMALL CHARACTERS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 A Small character gets a +1 size bonus to Armor Class, a +1 size bonus on attack rolls, and a +4 size bonus on Hide checks. A Small character\rquote s carrying capacity is three-quarters of that of a Medium character.
\par A Small character generally moves about two-thirds as fast as a Medium character.
\par A Small character must use smaller weapons than a Medium character.
\par }{\fs36\cf0 
\par HUMANS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 \bullet  Medium: As Medium creatures, humans have no special bonuses or penalties due to their size. 
\par \bullet  Human base land speed is 30 feet. 
\par \bullet  1 extra feat at 1st level.
\par \bullet  4 extra skill points at 1st level and 1 extra skill point at each additional level.
\par  \bullet  Automatic Language: Common. Bonus Languages: Any (other than secret languages, such as Druidic). See the Speak Language skill. }{\i\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\fs20\cf0 \bullet  Favored Class: Any. When determining whether a multiclass human takes an experience point penalty, his or her highest-level class does not count.
\par }{\fs36\cf0 
\par DWARVES
\par }{\fs20\cf0 \bullet  +2 Constitution, \endash 2 Charisma.
\par \bullet  Medium: As Medium creatures, dwarves have no special bonuses or penalties due to their size.
\par \bullet  Dwarf base land speed is 20 feet. However, dwarves can move at this speed even when wearing medium or heavy armor or when carrying a medium or heavy load (unlike other creatures, whose speed is reduced in such situations).
\par \bullet  Darkvision: Dwarves can see in the dark up to 60 feet. Darkvision is black and white only, but it is otherwise like normal sight, and dwarves can function just fine with no light at all.
\par \bullet  Stonecunning: This ability grants a dwarf a +2 racial bonus on Search checks to notice unusual stonework, su
ch as sliding walls, stonework traps, new construction (even when built to match the old), unsafe stone surfaces, shaky stone ceilings, and the like. Something that isn\rquote 
t stone but that is disguised as stone also counts as unusual stonework. A dwarf who me
rely comes within 10 feet of unusual stonework can make a Search check as if he were actively searching, and a dwarf can use the Search skill to find stonework traps as a rogue can. A dwarf can also intuit depth, sensing his approximate depth underground 
as naturally as a human can sense which way is up. 
\par \bullet  Weapon Familiarity: Dwarves may treat dwarven waraxes and dwarven urgroshes as martial weapons, rather than exotic weapons.
\par \bullet  Stability: A dwarf gains a +4 bonus on ability checks made to resist being bull rushed or tripped when standing on the ground (but not when climbing, flying, riding, or otherwise not standing firmly on the ground).
\par \bullet  +2 racial bonus on saving throws against poison.
\par \bullet  +2 racial bonus on saving throws against spells and spell-like effects.
\par \bullet  +1 racial bonus on attack rolls against orcs and goblinoids.
\par \bullet  +4 dodge bonus to Armor Class against monsters of the giant type. Any time a creature loses its Dexterity bonus (if any) to Armor Class, such as when it\rquote s caught flat-footed, it loses its dodge bonus, too. 
\par \bullet  +2 racial bonus on Appraise checks that are related to stone or metal items.
\par \bullet  +2 racial bonus on Craft checks that are related to stone or metal.
\par \bullet  Automatic Languages: Common and Dwarven. Bonus Languages: Giant, Gnome, Goblin, Orc, Terran, and Undercommon.
\par \bullet  Favored Class: Fighter. A multiclass dwarf \rquote s fighter class does not count when determining whether he takes an experience point penalty for multiclassing
\par }{\fs36\cf0 
\par ELVES
\par }{\fs20\cf0 \bullet  +2 Dexterity, \endash 2 Constitution.
\par \bullet  Medium: As Medium creatures, elves have no special bonuses or penalties due to their size.
\par \bullet  Elf base land speed is 30 feet.
\par \bullet  Immunity to magic sleep effects, and a +2 racial saving throw bonus against enchantment spells or effects.
\par \bullet  Low-Light Vision: An elf can see twice as far as a human in starlight, moonlight, torchlight, and similar conditions of poor illumination. She retains the ability to distinguish color and detail under these conditions.
\par \bullet  Weapon Proficiency: Elves receive the Martial Weapon Proficiency feats for the longsword, rapier, longbow (including composite longbow), and shortbow (including composite shortbow) as bonus feats.
\par \bullet  +2 racial bonus on Listen, Search, and Spot checks. An elf who merely passes within 5 feet of a secret or concealed door is entitled to a Search check to notice it as if she were actively looking for it.
\par \bullet  Automatic Languages: Common and Elven. Bonus Languages: Draconic, Gnoll, Gnome, Goblin, Orc, and Sylvan.
\par \bullet  Favored Class: Wizard. A multiclass elf \rquote s wizard class does not count when determining whether she takes an experience point penalty for multiclassing.
\par }{\fs36\cf0 
\par GNOMES
\par }{\fs20\cf0 \bullet  +2 Constitution, \endash 2 Strength.
\par \bullet  Small: As a Small creature, a gnome gains a +1 size bonus to Armor Class, a +1 size bonus on at
tack rolls, and a +4 size bonus on Hide checks, but he uses smaller weapons than humans use, and his lifting and carrying limits are three-quarters of those of a Medium character.
\par \bullet  Gnome base land speed is 20 feet.
\par \bullet  Low-Light Vision: A gnome can see twice as far as a human in starlight, moonlight, torchlight, and similar conditions of poor illumination. He retains the ability to distinguish color and detail under these conditions.
\par \bullet  Weapon Familiarity: Gnomes may treat gnome hooked hammers as martial weapons rather than exotic weapons.
\par \bullet  +2 racial bonus on saving throws against illusions.
\par \bullet  Add +1 to the Difficulty Class for all saving throws against illusion spells cast by gnomes. This adjustment stacks with those from similar effects.
\par \bullet  +1 racial bonus on attack rolls against kobolds and goblinoids.
\par \bullet  +4 dodge bonus to Armor Class against monsters of the giant type. Any time a creature loses its Dexterity bonus (if any) to Armor Class, such as when it\rquote s caught flat-footed, it loses its dodge bonus, too.
\par \bullet  +2 racial bonus on Listen checks.
\par \bullet  +2 racial bonus on Craft (alchemy) checks.
\par \bullet  Automatic Languages: Common and Gnome. Bonus Languages: Draconic, Dwarven, Elven, Giant, Goblin, and Orc. In addition, a gnome can speak with a burrowing mammal (a badger, fo
x, rabbit, or the like, see below). This ability is innate to gnomes. See the }{\i\fs20\cf0 speak with animals }{\fs20\cf0 spell description.
\par \bullet  Spell-Like Abilities: 1/day\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 speak with animals }{\fs20\cf0 (burrowing mammal only, duration 1 minute). A gnome with a Charisma score of at least 10 also has the following spell-like abilities: 1/day\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 
dancing lights, ghost sound, prestidigitation. }{\fs20\cf0 Caster level 1st; save DC 10 + gnome\rquote s Cha modifier + spell level.
\par \bullet  Favored Class: Bard. A multiclass gnome\rquote s bard class does not count when determining whether he takes an experience point penalty.
\par }{\fs36\cf0 
\par HALF-ELVES
\par }{\fs20\cf0 \bullet  Medium: As Medium creatures, half-elves have no special bonuses or penalties due to their size.
\par \bullet  Half-elf base land speed is 30 feet.
\par \bullet  Immunity to }{\i\fs20\cf0 sleep }{\fs20\cf0 spells and similar magical effects, and a +2 racial bonus on saving throws against enchantment spells or effects.
\par \bullet  Low-Light Vision: A half-elf can see twice as far as a human in starlight, moonlight, torchlight, and similar conditions of poor illumination. She retains the ability to distinguish color and detail under these conditions.
\par \bullet  +1 racial bonus on Listen, Search, and Spot checks.
\par \bullet  +2 racial bonus on Diplomacy and Gather Information checks.
\par \bullet  Elven Blood: For all effects related to race, a half-elf is considered an elf.
\par \bullet  Automatic Languages: Common and Elven. Bonus Languages: Any (other than secret languages, such as Druidic).
\par \bullet  Favored Class: Any. When determining whether a multiclass half-elf takes an experience point penalty, her highest-level class does not count.
\par }{\fs36\cf0 
\par HALF-ORCS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 \bullet  +2 Strength, \endash 2 Intelligence, \endash 2 Charisma.
\par A half-orc\rquote s starting Intelligence score is always at least 3. If this adjustment would lower the character\rquote s score to 1 or 2, his score is nevertheless 3.
\par \bullet  Medium: As Medium creatures, half-orcs have no special bonuses or penalties due to their size.
\par \bullet  Half-orc base land speed is 30 feet.
\par \bullet  Darkvision: Half-orcs (and orcs) can see in the dark up to 60 feet. Darkvision is black and white only, but it is otherwise like normal sight, and half-orcs can function just fine with no light at all.
\par \bullet  Orc Blood: For all effects related to race, a half-orc is considered an orc.
\par \bullet  Automatic Languages: Common and Orc. Bonus Languages: Draconic, Giant, Gnoll, Goblin, and Abyssal.
\par \bullet  Favored Class: Barbarian. A multiclass half-orc\rquote s barbarian class does not count when determining whether he takes an experience point penalty.
\par }{\fs36\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {HALFLINGS
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 \bullet  +2 Dexterity, \endash 2 Strength.
\par \bullet  Small: As a Small creature, a halfling gains a +1 size bonus to Armor Class, a +
1 size bonus on attack rolls, and a +4 size bonus on Hide checks, but she uses smaller weapons than humans use, and her lifting and carrying limits are three-quarters of those of a Medium character.
\par \bullet  Halfling base land speed is 20 feet.
\par \bullet  +2 racial bonus on Climb, Jump, and Move Silently checks.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\bullet  +1 racial bonus on all saving throws.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 \bullet  +2 morale bonus on saving throws against fear: This bonus stacks with the halfling\rquote 
s +1 bonus on saving throws in general.
\par \bullet  +1 racial bonus on attack rolls with thrown weapons and slings.
\par \bullet  +2 racial bonus on Listen checks.
\par \bullet  Automatic Languages: Common and Halfling. Bonus Languages: Dwarven, Elven, Gnome, Goblin, and Orc.
\par \bullet  Favored Class: Rogue. A multiclass halfling\rquote s rogue class does not count when determining whether she takes an experience point penalty for multiclassing.
\par }}