{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New{\*\falt Courier};}{\f164\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f165\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f167\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f168\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f169\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f170\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f171\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f180\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f181\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr{\*\falt Courier};}{\f183\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek{\*\falt Courier};}{\f184\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f185\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier};}{\f186\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic){\*\falt Courier};}{\f187\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic{\*\falt Courier};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\qr \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{
\s4\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 4;}{\s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel4\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\i\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 5;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext15 Body Text;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Body Text 2;}{\s17\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar
\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 Preformatted;}}{\*\revtbl {Unknown;}}{\info{\title Hallow}{\author AKSmith}
{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2003\mo7\dy1\hr14\min1}{\revtim\yr2003\mo7\dy2\hr13\min28}{\version3}{\edmins1}{\nofpages4}{\nofwords8822}{\nofchars50290}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws61759}{\vern8283}}
\margl1080\margr1080\margt1080\margb1080 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace120\dgvspace180\dghorigin1080\dgvorigin1080\dghshow2\dgvshow2
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 
This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{\f0\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs36\cf0 SPELLS (H-L)
\par }{\cf0 
\par Hallow
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Good]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 5, Drd 5
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M, DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  24 hours
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  40-ft. radius emanating from the touched point
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  See text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  See text
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Hallow }{\fs20\cf0 makes a particular site, building, or structure a holy site. This has four major effects.
\par First, the site or structure is guarded by a }{\i\fs20\cf0 magic circle against evil }{\fs20\cf0 effect.
\par Second, all Charisma checks made to turn undead gain a +4 sacred bonus, and Charisma checks to command undead take a \endash 4 penalty. Spell resistance does not apply to this effect. (This provision does not apply to the druid version of the spell.)

\par Third, any dead body interred in a }{\i\fs20\cf0 hallowed }{\fs20\cf0 site cannot be turned into an undead creature.
\par Finally, you may choose to fix a single spell effect to the }{\i\fs20\cf0 hallowed }{\fs20\cf0 site. The spell effect lasts for one year and functions throughout
 the entire site, regardless of the normal duration and area or effect. You may designate whether the effect applies to all creatures, creatures who share your faith or alignment, or creatures who adhere to another faith or alignment. At the end of the ye
ar, the chosen effect lapses, but it can be renewed or replaced simply by casting }{\i\fs20\cf0 hallow }{\fs20\cf0 again.
\par Spell effects that may be tied to a }{\i\fs20\cf0 hallowed }{\fs20\cf0 site include }{\i\fs20\cf0 aid, bane, bless, cause fear, darkness, daylight, death ward, deeper darkness, detect evil, detect magi
c, dimensional anchor, discern lies, dispel magic, endure elements, freedom of movement, invisibility purge, protection from energy, remove fear, resist energy, silence, tongues, }{\fs20\cf0 and }{\i\fs20\cf0 zone of truth}{\fs20\cf0 
. Saving throws and spell resistance might apply to these spells\rquote  effects. (See the individual spell descriptions for details.)
\par An area can receive only one }{\i\fs20\cf0 hallow }{\fs20\cf0 spell (and its associated spell effect) at a time. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Hallow }{\fs20\cf0 counters but does not dispel }{\i\fs20\cf0 unhallow}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 Herbs, oils, and incense worth at least 1,000 gp, plus 1,000 gp per level of the spell to be included in the }{\i\fs20\cf0 hallowed }{\fs20\cf0 area.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Hallucinatory Terrain
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Illusion (Glamer)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 4, Sor/Wiz 4
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  10 minutes
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  One 30-ft. cube/level (S)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  2 hours/level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will disbelief (if interacted with)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par You make natural terrain look, sound, and smell like some other sort of natural terrain. Structures, equipment, and creatures within the area are not hidden or changed in appearance.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A stone, a twig, and a bit of green plant.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Halt Undead
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Necromancy
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 3
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Targets:}{\fs20\cf0  Up to three undead creatures, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round/level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (see text)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par This spell renders as many as three undead creatures immobile. A nonintelligent undead creature
 gets no saving throw; an intelligent undead creature does. If the spell is successful, it renders the undead creature immobile for the duration of the spell (similar to the effect of }{\i\fs20\cf0 hold person }{\fs20\cf0 
on a living creature). The effect is broken if the }{\i\fs20\cf0 halted }{\fs20\cf0 creatures are attacked or take damage.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A pinch of sulfur and powdered garlic.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Harm
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Necromancy
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 6, Destruction 6
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Creature touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will half; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Harm }{\fs20\cf0 charges a subject with negative energy that deals 10 points of damage per caster level (to a maximum of 150 points at 15th level). If the creature successfully saves, }{\i\fs20\cf0 harm }{\fs20\cf0 
deals half this amount, but it cannot reduce the target\rquote s hit points to less than 1.
\par If used on an undead creature, }{\i\fs20\cf0 harm }{\fs20\cf0 acts like }{\i\fs20\cf0 heal}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Haste
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 3
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Targets:}{\fs20\cf0  One creature/level, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round/level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Fortitude negates (harmless)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (harmless)
\par The transmuted creatures move and act more quickly than normal. This extra speed has several effects.
\par When making a full attack action, a hasted creature may make one extra attack with any weapon he is holding. The attack is made using the creature\rquote s full base attack bonus, plus any modifiers appropriate to the situation. (This effect is not c
umulative with similar effects, such as that provided by a weapon of speed, nor does it actually grant an extra action, so you can\rquote t use it to cast a second spell or otherwise take an extra action in the round.)
\par A }{\i\fs20\cf0 hasted }{\fs20\cf0 creature gains a +1 bonus on attack rolls and a +1 dodge bonus to AC and Reflex saves. Any condition that makes you lose your Dexterity bonus to Armor Class (if any) also makes you lose dodge bonuses.
\par All of the }{\i\fs20\cf0 hasted }{\fs20\cf0 creature\rquote s modes of movement (including land movement, burrow, climb, fly, and swim) increase by 30 feet, to a maximum of twice the subject\rquote 
s normal speed using that form of movement. This increase counts as an enhancement bonus, and it affects the creature\rquote s jumping distance as normal for increased speed.
\par Multiple }{\i\fs20\cf0 haste }{\fs20\cf0 effects don\rquote t stack. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Haste }{\fs20\cf0 dispels and counters }{\i\fs20\cf0 slow.
\par Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A shaving of licorice root.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Heal
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Healing)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 6, Drd 7, Healing 6
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Creature touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (harmless)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (harmless)
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Heal }{\fs20\cf0 enables you to channel positive energy into a creature to wipe away injury and afflictions. It immediately ends any and all of the following adverse conditions affecting the Target: ability damage, blinded, }{\i\fs20\cf0 
confused, }{\fs20\cf0 dazed, dazzled, deafened, diseased, exhausted, fatigued, }{\i\fs20\cf0 feebleminded, }{\fs20\cf0 insanity, nauseated, sickened, stunned, and pois
oned. It also cures 10 hit points of damage per level of the caster, to a maximum of 150 points at 15th level.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Heal }{\fs20\cf0 does not remove negative levels, restore permanently drained levels, or restore permanently drained ability score points.
\par If used against an undead creature, }{\i\fs20\cf0 heal }{\fs20\cf0 instead acts like }{\i\fs20\cf0 harm}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Heal, Mass
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Healing)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 9, Healing 9
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Targets:}{\fs20\cf0  One or more creatures, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart
\par This spell functions like }{\i\fs20\cf0 heal, }{\fs20\cf0 except as noted above. The maximum number of hit points restored to each creature is 250.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Heal Mount
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Healing)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Pal 3
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Your mount touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (harmless)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (harmless)
\par This spell functions like }{\i\fs20\cf0 heal, }{\fs20\cf0 but it affects only the paladin\rquote s special mount (typically a warhorse).
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Heat Metal
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation [Fire]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Drd 2, Sun 2
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 Metal equipment of one creature per two levels, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart; or 25 lb. of metal/level, all of which must be within a 30-ft. circle
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  7 rounds
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (object)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (object)
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Heat metal }{\fs20\cf0 makes metal extremely warm. Unattended, nonmagical metal gets no saving throw. Magical metal is allowed a saving throw against the spell. An item in a creature\rquote s possession uses the creature\rquote 
s saving throw bonus unless its own is higher.
\par A creature takes fire damage if its equipment is heated. It takes full damage if its armor is affected or if it is holding, touching, wearing, or carrying metal weighing one-fifth of its weight. The cre
ature takes minimum damage (1 point or 2 points; see the table) if it\rquote s not wearing metal armor and the metal that it\rquote s carrying weighs less than one-fifth of its weight.
\par On the first round of the spell, the metal becomes warm and uncomfortable to touch but deals no damage. The same effect also occurs on the last round of the spell\rquote 
s duration. During the second (and also the next-to-last) round, intense heat causes pain and damage. In the third, fourth, and fifth rounds, the metal is searing hot, causing more damage, as shown on the table below.
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx687\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2586
\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3641\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Round}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20 Metal}{\b\fs20\cf0  Temperature}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 Damage}{\b\fs18\cf0 
\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx687\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2586\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3641\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx687\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2586\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3641\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 1}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 Warm}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 None}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx687\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2586\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3641\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 2}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 Hot}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 1d4 points}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx687\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2586\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3641\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 3\endash 5}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 Searing}{\fs18\cf0 
\cell }{\fs20\cf0 2d4 points}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx687\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2586\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx3641\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 6}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 Hot}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 1d4 points}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx687\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2586\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3641\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx687\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2586\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx3641\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 7}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 Warm}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 None}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 
\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx687\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2586
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3641\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\cf0 
Any cold intense enough to damage the creature negates fire damage from the spell (and vice versa) on a point-for-point basis. If cast underwater, }{\i\fs20\cf0 heat metal }{\fs20\cf0 deals half damage and boils the surrounding water.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Heat metal }{\fs20\cf0 counters and dispels }{\i\fs20\cf0 chill metal}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Helping Hand
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 3
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  5 miles
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  Ghostly hand
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 hour/level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par You create the ghostly image of a hand, which you can send to find a creature within 5 miles. The hand then beckons to that creature and leads it to you if the creature is willing to follow.
\par When the spell is cast, the hand appears in front of you. You the
n specify a person (or any creature) by physical description, which can include race, gender, and appearance but not ambiguous factors such as level, alignment, or class. When the description is complete, the hand streaks off in search of a subject that f
its the description. The amount of time it takes to find the subject depends on how far away she is.
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1197\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2702\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Distance}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 Time to Locate}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs18\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1197\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2702\row }\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1197\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2702\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 100 ft. or less}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 1 round}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1197\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2702\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 1,000 ft.}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 1 minute}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1197\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2702\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 1 mile}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 10 minutes}{
\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1197\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2702\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 2 miles}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }
{\fs20\cf0 1 hour}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1197\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2702\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 3 miles}{
\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 2 hours}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1197\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2702\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 4 miles}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 3 hours}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1197\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx2702\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1197\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx2702\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 5 miles}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 4 hours}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1197\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2702\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\cf0 
Once the hand locates the subject, it beckons the creature to follow it. If the subject does so, the hand points in your direction, indicating the most direct feasible route. The hand hovers 10 feet in front of the subject, moving before it at a speed of 
as much as 240 feet per round. Once the hand leads the subject back to you, it disappears.
\par The subject is not compelled to follow the hand or act in any particular way toward you. If the subject chooses not to follow, the hand continues to beckon for the du
ration of the spell, then disappears. If the spell expires while the subject is en route to you, the hand disappears; the subject must then rely on her own devices to locate you.
\par If more than one subject in a 5-mile radius meets the description, the hand locates the closest creature. If that creature refuses to follow the hand, the hand does not seek out a second subject.
\par If, at the end of 4 hours of searching, the hand has found no subject that matches the description within 5 miles, it returns to you, displays an outstretched palm (indicating that no such creature was found), and disappears.
\par The ghostly hand has no physical form. It is invisible to anyone except you and a potential subject. It cannot engage in combat or execute any other task aside from locating a subject and leading it back to you. The hand can\rquote 
t pass through solid objects but can ooze through small cracks and slits. The hand cannot travel more than 5 miles from the spot it appeared when you cast the spell.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Heroes\rquote  Feast
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration [Creation]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 6, Clr 6
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  10 minutes
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  Feast for one creature/level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 hour plus 12 hours; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par You bring forth a great feast, including a magnificent table, chairs, service, and food and drink. The feast takes 1 hour to consume, and the beneficial effects do not set in until this hour is over. Every creature partaking of the feast is cured of all d
i
seases, sickness, and nausea; becomes immune to poison for 12 hours; and gains 1d8 temporary hit points +1 point per two caster levels (maximum +10) after imbibing the nectar-like beverage that is part of the feast. The ambrosial food that is consumed gra
nts each creature that partakes a +1 morale bonus on attack rolls and Will saves and immunity to fear effects for 12 hours.
\par If the feast is interrupted for any reason, the spell is ruined and all effects of the spell are negated.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Heroism
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 3
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Creature touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  10 min./level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (harmless)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (harmless)
\par This spell imbues a single creature with great bravery and morale in battle. The target gains a +2 morale bonus on attack rolls, saves, and skill checks.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Heroism, Greater
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 5, Sor/Wiz 6
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 min./level
\par This spell functions like }{\i\fs20\cf0 heroism, }{\fs20\cf0 except the creature gains a +4 morale bonus on attack rolls, saves, and skill checks, immunity to fear effects, and temporary hit points equal to your caster level (maximum 20).
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Hide from Animals
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjuration
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Drd 1, Rgr 1
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  S, DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Targets:}{\fs20\cf0  One creature touched/level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  10 min./level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (harmless)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par Animals cannot see, hear, or smell the warded creatures. Even extraordinary or supernatural sensory capabilities, such as blindsense, blindsight, scent, and tremorsense, cannot detect or locate warded creatures. Animals simply act as though the warded cre
atures are not there. If a warded character touches an animal or attacks any creature, even with a spell, the spell ends for all recipients.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Hide from Undead
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjuration
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 1
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Targets:}{\fs20\cf0  One touched creature/level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  10 min./level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (harmless); see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par Undead cannot see, hear, or smell the warded creatures. Even extraordinary or supernatural sensory capabilities, such as blindsens
e, blindsight, scent, and tremorsense, cannot detect or locate warded creatures. Nonintelligent undead creatures are automatically affected and act as though the warded creatures are not there. An intelligent undead creature gets a single Will saving thro
w. If it fails, the subject can\rquote 
t see any of the warded creatures. However, if it has reason to believe unseen opponents are present, it can attempt to find or strike them. If a warded creature attempts to turn or command undead, touches an undead creature,
 or attacks any creature (even with a spell), the spell ends for all recipients.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Hideous Laughter
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 1, Sor/Wiz 2
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One creature; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round/level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par This spell afflicts the subject with uncontrollable laughter. It collapses into gales of manic laughter, falling prone. The subject can take no actions while laughing, but is not considered helpless. After the spell ends, it can act normally.
\par A creature with an Intelligence score of 2 or lower is not affected. A creature whose type is different from the caster\rquote s receives a +4 bonus on its saving throw, because humor doesn\rquote t \'93translate\'94 well.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 Tiny tarts that are thrown at the target and a feather that is waved in the air.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Hold Animal
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Animal 2, Drd 2, Rgr 2
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One animal
\par This spell functions like }{\i\fs20\cf0 hold person, }{\fs20\cf0 except that it affects an animal instead of a humanoid.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Hold Monster
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 4, Law 6, Sor/Wiz 5
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M/DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One living creature
\par This spell functions like }{\i\fs20\cf0 hold person, }{\fs20\cf0 except that it affects any living creature that fails its Will save.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 One hard metal bar or rod, which can be as small as a three-penny nail.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Hold Monster, Mass
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 9
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Targets:}{\fs20\cf0  One or more creatures, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart
\par This spell functions like }{\i\fs20\cf0 hold person, }{\fs20\cf0 except that it affects multiple creatures and holds any living creature that fails its Will save.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Hold Person
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 2, Clr 2, Sor/Wiz 3
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, F/DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One humanoid creature
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round/level (D); see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par The subject becomes paralyzed and freezes in place. It is aware and breathes normally but cannot take any actions, even speech. Each round on its turn, the subject may 
attempt a new saving throw to end the effect. (This is a full-round action that does not provoke attacks of opportunity.)
\par A winged creature who is paralyzed cannot flap its wings and falls. A swimmer can\rquote t swim and may drown.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Focus: }{\fs20\cf0 A small, straight piece of iron.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Hold Person, Mass
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 7
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Targets:}{\fs20\cf0  One or more humanoid creatures, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart
\par This spell functions like }{\i\fs20\cf0 hold person, }{\fs20\cf0 except as noted above.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Hold Portal
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjuration
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 1
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Component:}{\fs20\cf0  V
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One portal, up to 20 sq. ft./level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 min./level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par This spell magically holds shut a door, gate, window, or shutter of wood, metal, or stone. The magic affects the portal just as if it were securely closed and normally locked. A }{\i\fs20\cf0 knock }{\fs20\cf0 spell or a successful }{\i\fs20\cf0 
dispel magic }{\fs20\cf0 spell can negate a }{\i\fs20\cf0 hold portal }{\fs20\cf0 spell.
\par For a portal affected by this spell, add 5 to the normal DC for forcing open the portal.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Holy Aura
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjuration [Good]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 8, Good 8
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, F
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  20 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Targets:}{\fs20\cf0  One creature/level in a 20-ft.-radius burst centered on you
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round/level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  See text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (harmless)
\par A brilliant divine radiance surrounds the subjects, protecting them from attacks, granting them resistance to spells cast by evil creatures, and causing evil creatures to become blinded when they strike the subjects. This abjuration has four effects.

\par First, each warded creature gains a +4 deflection bonus to AC and a +4 resistance bonus on saves. Unlike }{\i\fs20\cf0 protection from evil}{\fs20\cf0 , this benefit applies against all attacks, not just against attacks by evil creatures.
\par Second, each warded creature gains spell resistance 25 against evil spells and spells cast by evil creatures.
\par Third, the abjuration blocks possession and mental influence, just as }{\i\fs20\cf0 protection from evil }{\fs20\cf0 does.
\par Finally, if an evil creature succeeds on a melee attack against a warded creature, the offending attacker is blinded (Fortitude save negates, as }{\i\fs20\cf0 blindness/deafness}{\fs20\cf0 , but against }{\i\fs20\cf0 holy aura\rquote s }{\fs20\cf0 
save DC).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Focus: }{\fs20\cf0 A tiny reliquary containing some sacred relic. The reliquary costs at least 500 gp.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Holy Smite
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Good]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Good 4
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  20-ft.-radius burst
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous (1 round); see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will partial; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par You draw down holy power to smite your enemies. Only evil and neutral creatures are harmed by the spell; good creatures are unaffected.
\par The spell deals 1d8 points of dama
ge per two caster levels (maximum 5d8) to each evil creature in the area (or 1d6 points of damage per caster level, maximum 10d6, to an evil outsider) and causes it to become blinded for 1 round. A successful Will saving throw reduces damage to half and n
egates the blinded effect.
\par The spell deals only half damage to creatures who are neither good nor evil, and they are not blinded. Such a creature can reduce that damage by half (down to one-quarter of the roll) with a successful Will save.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Holy Sword
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Good]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Pal 4
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 Melee weapon touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round/level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par This spell allows you to channel holy power into your sword, or any other melee weapon you choose. The weapon acts as a }{\i\fs20\cf0 +5 holy weapon }{\fs20\cf0 
(+5 enhancement bonus on attack and damage rolls, extra 2d6 damage against evil opponents). It also emits a }{\i\fs20\cf0 magic circle against evil }{\fs20\cf0 effect (as the spell). If the }{\i\fs20\cf0 magic circle }{\fs20\cf0 
ends, the sword creates a new one on your turn as a free action. The spell is automatically canceled 1 round after the weapon leaves your hand. You cannot have more than one }{\i\fs20\cf0 holy sword }{\fs20\cf0 at a time.
\par If this spell is cast on a magic weapon, the powers of the spell supersede any that the weapon normally has, rendering the normal enhancement bonus and powers of the weapon inoperative for the duration of the spell. This spell is not cumulative with }{
\i\fs20\cf0 bless weapon }{\fs20\cf0 or any other spell that might modify the weapon in any way.
\par This spell does not work on artifacts.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Note: }{\fs20\cf0 A masterwork weapon\rquote s bonus to attack does not stack with an enhancement bonus to attack.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Holy Word
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Good, Sonic]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 7, Good 7
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  40 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  Nongood creatures in a 40-ft.-radius spread centered on you
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None or Will negates; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par Any nongood creature within the area that hears the }{\i\fs20\cf0 holy word }{\fs20\cf0 suffers the following ill effects.
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1736\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5201\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 HD}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1736\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5201\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1736\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx5201\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Equal to caster level}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 Deafened}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1736\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5201\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Up to caster level}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \endash 1 Blinded, deafened}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1736\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5201\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Up to caster level}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 
\endash 5 Paralyzed, blinded, deafened}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1736\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5201\row }\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1736\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5201\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Up to caster level}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \endash 10 Killed, paralyzed, blinded, deafened}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1736\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx5201\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\cf0 The effects are cumulative and concurrent. No saving throw is allowed against these effects.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Deafened: }{\fs20\cf0 The creature is deafened for 1d4 rounds.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Blinded: }{\fs20\cf0 The creature is blinded for 2d4 rounds.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Paralyzed: }{\fs20\cf0 The creature is paralyzed and helpless for 1d10 minutes.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Killed: }{\fs20\cf0 Living creatures die. Undead creatures are destroyed.
\par Furthermore, if you are on your home plane when you cast this spell, nongood extraplanar creatures within the area are instantly banished back to their home planes. Creatures so banished ca
nnot return for at least 24 hours. This effect takes place regardless of whether the creatures hear the }{\i\fs20\cf0 holy word. }{\fs20\cf0 The banishment effect allows a Will save (at a \endash 4 penalty) to negate.
\par Creatures whose HD exceed your caster level are unaffected by }{\i\fs20\cf0 holy word.
\par }{\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Horrid Wilting
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Necromancy
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 8, Water 8
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M/DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Targets:}{\fs20\cf0  Living creatures, no two of which can be more than 60 ft. apart
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Fortitude half
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par This spell evaporates moisture from the body of each subject living creature, dealing 1d6 points of damage per caster level (maximum 20d6). 
This spell is especially devastating to water elementals and plant creatures, which instead take 1d8 points of damage per caster level (maximum 20d8).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A bit of sponge.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Hypnotic Pattern
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Illusion (Pattern) [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 2
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V (Brd only), S, M; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  Colorful lights in a 10-ft.-radius spread
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Concentration + 2 rounds
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par A twisting pattern of subtle, shifting colors weaves through the air, fascinating creatures within it. Roll 2d4 and add your caster level (maximum 10) to determine the total number of Hit Dice of creatures affected. Creatures with the fewest HD are 
affected first; and, among creatures with equal HD, those who are closest to the spell\rquote 
s point of origin are affected first. Hit Dice that are not sufficient to affect a creature are wasted. Affected creatures become fascinated by the pattern of colors. Sightless creatures are not affected.
\par A wizard or sorcerer need not utter a sound to cast this spell, but a bard must sing, play music, or recite a rhyme as a verbal component.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A glowing stick of incense or a crystal rod filled with phosphorescent material.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Hypnotism
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 1, Sor/Wiz 1
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  Several living creatures, no two of which may be more than 30 ft. apart
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  2d4 rounds (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par Your gestures and droning incantation fascinate nearby creatures, causing them to stop and stare blankly at you. In addition, you can use their rapt attention to make your suggestions a
nd requests seem more plausible. Roll 2d4 to see how many total Hit Dice of creatures you affect. Creatures with fewer HD are affected before creatures with more HD. Only creatures that can see or hear you are affected, but they do not need to understand 
you to be fascinated.
\par If you use this spell in combat, each target gains a +2 bonus on its saving throw. If the spell affects only a single creature not in combat at the time, the saving throw has a penalty of \endash 2.
\par While the subject is fascinated by this
 spell, it reacts as though it were two steps more friendly in attitude. This allows you to make a single request of the affected creature (provided you can communicate with it). The request must be brief and reasonable. Even after the spell ends, the cre
ature retains its new attitude toward you, but only with respect to that particular request.
\par A creature that fails its saving throw does not remember that you enspelled it.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Ice Storm
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Cold]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Drd 4, Sor/Wiz 4, Water 5
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M/DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  Cylinder (20-ft. radius, 40 ft. high)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 full round
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par Great magical hailstones pound down for 1 full round, dealing 3d6 points of bludgeoning damage and 2d6 points of cold damage to every creature in the area. A \endash 4 penalty applies to each Listen check made within the }{\i\fs20\cf0 ice storm}{
\fs20\cf0 \rquote s effect, and all land movement within its area is at half speed. At the end of the duration, the hail disappears, leaving no aftereffects (other than the damage dealt).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A pinch of dust and a few drops of water.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Identify
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Divination
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 1, Magic 2, Sor/Wiz 1
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M/DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 hour
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Targets:}{\fs20\cf0  One touched object
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par The spell determines all magic properties of a single magic item, including how to activate those functions (if appropriate), and how many charges are left (if any).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Identify }{\fs20\cf0 does not function when used on an artifact.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A pearl of at least 100 gp value, crushed and stirred into wine with an owl feather; the infusion must be drunk prior to spellcasting.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Illusory Script
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Illusion (Phantasm) [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 3
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute or longer; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One touched object weighing no more than 10 lb.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  One day/level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par You write instructions or other information on parchment, paper, or any suitable writing material. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 illusory script }{\fs20\cf0 
appears to be some form of foreign or magical writing. Only the person (or people) designated by you at the time of the casting are able to read the writing; it\rquote s unintelligible to any other character, although an illusionist recognizes it as }{
\i\fs20\cf0 illusory script.
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Any unauthorized creature attempting to read the script triggers a potent illusory effect and must make a saving throw. A successful saving throw 
means the creature can look away with only a mild sense of disorientation. Failure means the creature is subject to a suggestion implanted in the script by you at the time the illusory script spell was cast. The suggestion lasts only 30 minutes. Typical s
uggestions include \'93Close the book and leave,\'94 \'93Forget the existence of the book,\'94 and so forth. If successfully dispelled by }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel magic, }{\fs20\cf0 the }{\i\fs20\cf0 illusory script }{\fs20\cf0 
and its secret message disappear. The hidden message can be read by a combination of the }{\i\fs20\cf0 true seeing }{\fs20\cf0 spell with the }{\i\fs20\cf0 read magic }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 comprehend languages }{\fs20\cf0 spell.
\par The casting time depends on how long a message you wish to write, but it is always at least 1 minute.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A lead-based ink (cost of not less than 50 gp).
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Illusory Wall
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Illusion (Figment)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 4
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  Image 1 ft. by 10 ft. by 10 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Permanent
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will disbelief (if interacted with)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par This spell 
creates the illusion of a wall, floor, ceiling, or similar surface. It appears absolutely real when viewed, but physical objects can pass through it without difficulty. When the spell is used to hide pits, traps, or normal doors, any detection abilities t
hat do not require sight work normally. Touch or a probing search reveals the true nature of the surface, though such measures do not cause the illusion to disappear.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Imbue with Spell Ability
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 4, Magic 4
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  10 minutes
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Creature touched; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Permanent until discharged (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (harmless)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (harmless)
\par You transfer some of your currently prepared spells, and the ability to
 cast them, to another creature. Only a creature with an Intelligence score of at least 5 and a Wisdom score of at least 9 can receive this bestowal. Only cleric spells from the schools of abjuration, divination, and conjuration (healing) can be transferr
ed. The number and level of spells that the subject can be granted depends on its Hit Dice; even multiple castings of }{\i\fs20\cf0 imbue with spell ability }{\fs20\cf0 can\rquote t exceed this limit.
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1486\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5757\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 HD of Recipient}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spells Imbued}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs18\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1486\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5757\row }\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1486\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5757\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 2 or lower}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 One 1st-level spell}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 
{\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1486\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5757\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 3\endash 4}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 One or two 1st-level spells}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1486\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5757\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1486\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5757\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20\cf0 5 or higher}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 One or two 1st-level spells and one 2nd-level spell}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1486\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5757\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\cf0 The transferred spell\rquote s variable characteristics (range, duration, area, and the like) function according to your level, not the level of the recipient.
\par Once you cast }{\i\fs20\cf0 imbue with spell ability, }{\fs20\cf0 you cannot prepare a new 4th-level spell to replace it until the recipient uses the imbued spells or is slain, or until you dismiss the }{\i\fs20\cf0 imbue with spell ability }{\fs20\cf0 
spell. In the meantime, you remain responsible to your deity or your principles for the use to which the spell is put. If the number of 4th-level spells you can cast decreases, and that number drops below your current number of active }{\i\fs20\cf0 
imbue with spell ability }{\fs20\cf0 spells, the more recently cast imbued spells are dispelled.
\par To cast a spell with a verbal component, the subject must be able to speak. To cast a spell with a somatic component, it must have humanlike hands. To cast a spell with a material component or focus, it must have the materials or focus.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Implosion
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 9, Destruction 9
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Targets:}{\fs20\cf0  One corporeal creature/round
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Concentration (up to 4 rounds)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Fortitude negates
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par You create a destructive resonance in a corporeal creature\rquote s body. For each round you concentrate, you cause one creature to collapse in on itself, killing it. (This effect, being instantaneous, cannot be dispelled.)
\par You can target a particular creature only once with each casting of the spell.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Implosion }{\fs20\cf0 has no effect on creatures in gaseous form or on incorporeal creatures.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Imprisonment
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjuration
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 9
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Creature touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par When you cast }{\i\fs20\cf0 imprisonment }{\fs20\cf0 and touch a creature, it is entombed in a state of suspended animation (see the }{\i\fs20\cf0 temporal stasis }{\fs20\cf0 spell) in a small sphere far beneath the surface o
f the earth. The subject remains there unless a }{\i\fs20\cf0 freedom }{\fs20\cf0 spell is cast at the locale where the imprisonment took place. Magical search by a }{\i\fs20\cf0 crystal ball, }{\fs20\cf0 a }{\i\fs20\cf0 locate object }{\fs20\cf0 
spell, or some other similar divination does not reveal the fact that a creature is imprisoned, but }{\i\fs20\cf0 discern location }{\fs20\cf0 does. A }{\i\fs20\cf0 wish }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 miracle }{\fs20\cf0 
spell will not free the recipient, but will reveal where it is entombed. If you know the target\rquote s name and some facts about its life, the target takes a \endash 4 penalty on its save.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Incendiary Cloud
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Creation) [Fire]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Fire 8, Sor/Wiz 8
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  Cloud spreads in 20-ft. radius, 20 ft. high
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round/level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Reflex half; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par An }{\i\fs20\cf0 incendiary cloud }{\fs20\cf0 spell creates a cloud of roiling smoke shot through with white-hot embers. The smoke obscures all sight as a }{\i\fs20\cf0 fog cloud }{\fs20\cf0 
does. In addition, the white-hot embers within the cloud deal 4d6 points of fire damage to everything within the cloud on your turn each round. All targets can make Reflex saves each round to take half damage.
\par As with a }{\i\fs20\cf0 cloudkill }{\fs20\cf0 spell, the smoke moves away from you at 10 feet per round. Figure out the smoke\rquote s new spread each round based on its new p
oint of origin, which is 10 feet farther away from where you were when you cast the spell. By concentrating, you can make the cloud (actually its point of origin) move as much as 60 feet each round. Any portion of the cloud that would extend beyond your m
aximum range dissipates harmlessly, reducing the remainder\rquote s spread thereafter.
\par As with }{\i\fs20\cf0 fog cloud}{\fs20\cf0 , wind disperses the smoke, and the spell can\rquote t be cast underwater.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Inflict Critical Wounds
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Necromancy
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 4, Destruction 4
\par This spell functions like }{\i\fs20\cf0 inflict light wounds}{\fs20\cf0 , except that you deal 4d8 points of damage +1 point per caster level (maximum +20).
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Inflict Critical Wounds, Mass
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Necromancy
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 8
\par This spell functions like }{\i\fs20\cf0 mass inflict light wounds}{\fs20\cf0 , except that it deals 4d8 points of damage +1 point per caster level (maximum +40).
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Inflict Light Wounds
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Necromancy
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 1, Destruction 1
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Creature touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will half
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par When laying your hand upon a creature, you channel negative energy that deals 1d8 points of damage +1 point per caster level (maximum +5).
\par Since undead are powered by negative energy, this spell cures such a creature of a like amount of damage, rather than harming it.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Inflict Light Wounds, Mass
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Necromancy
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 5, Destruction 5
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One creature/level, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will half
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par Negative energy spreads out in all directions from the point of origin, dealing 1d8 points of damage +1 point per caster level (maximum +25) to nearby living enemies.
\par Like other }{\i\fs20\cf0 inflict }{\fs20\cf0 spells, }{\i\fs20\cf0 mass inflict light wounds }{\fs20\cf0 cures undead in its area rather than damaging them. A cleric capable of spontaneously casting }{\i\fs20\cf0 inflict }{\fs20\cf0 
spells can also spontaneously cast }{\i\fs20\cf0 mass inflict }{\fs20\cf0 spells.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Inflict Minor Wounds
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Necromancy
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 0
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates
\par This spell functions like }{\i\fs20\cf0 inflict light wounds, }{\fs20\cf0 except that you deal 1 point of damage and a Will save negates the damage instead of halving it.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Inflict Moderate Wounds
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Necromancy
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 2
\par This spell functions like }{\i\fs20\cf0 inflict light wounds}{\fs20\cf0 , except that you deal 2d8 points of damage +1 point per caster level (maximum +10).
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Inflict Moderate Wounds, Mass
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Necromancy
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 6
\par This spell functions like }{\i\fs20\cf0 mass inflict light wounds}{\fs20\cf0 , except that it deals 2d8 points of damage +1 point per caster level (maximum +30).
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Inflict Serious Wounds
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Necromancy
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 3
\par This spell functions like }{\i\fs20\cf0 inflict light wounds}{\fs20\cf0 , except that you deal 3d8 points of damage +1 point per caster level (maximum +15).
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Inflict Serious Wounds, Mass
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Necromancy
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 7
\par This spell functions like }{\i\fs20\cf0 mass inflict light wounds}{\fs20\cf0 , except that it deals 3d8 points of damage +1 point per caster level (maximum +35).
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Insanity
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 7
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One living creature
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par The affected creature suffers from a continuous }{\i\fs20\cf0 confusion }{\fs20\cf0 effect, as the spell.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Remove curse }{\fs20\cf0 does not remove }{\i\fs20\cf0 insanity}{\fs20\cf0 . }{\i\fs20\cf0 Greater restoration}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 heal}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 limited wish}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 miracle}{\fs20\cf0 , or }{
\i\fs20\cf0 wish }{\fs20\cf0 can restore the creature.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Insect Plague
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Summoning)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 5, Drd 5
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  One swarm of locusts per three levels, each of which must be adjacent to at least one other swarm
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 min./level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par You summon a number of swarms of locusts (one per three l
evels, to a maximum of six swarms at 18th level). The swarms must be summoned so that each one is adjacent to at least one other swarm (that is, the swarms must fill one contiguous area). You may summon the locust swarms so that they share the area of oth
er creatures. Each swarm attacks any creatures occupying its area. The swarms are stationary after being summoned, and won\rquote t pursue creatures that flee.
\par }{\cf0 
\par Instant Summons
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Summoning)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 7
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  See text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One object weighing 10 lb. or less whose longest dimension is 6 ft. or less
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Permanent until discharged
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par You call some nonliving item from virtually any location directly to your hand.
\par First, you must place your }{\i\fs20\cf0 arcane mark}{\fs20\cf0  on the item. Then you cast this spell, which magically and invisibly inscribes the name of the item on a sapphire worth at least 1,000 gp
. Thereafter, you can summon the item by speaking a special word (set by you when the spell is cast) and crushing the gem. The item appears instantly in your hand. Only you can use the gem in this way.
\par If the item is in the possession of another creature, the spell does not work, but you know who the possessor is and roughly where that creature is located when the summons occurs.
\par The inscription on the gem is invisible. It is also unreadable, except by means of a }{\i\fs20\cf0 read magic }{\fs20\cf0 spell, to anyone but you.
\par The item can be summoned from another plane, but only if no other creature has claimed ownership of it.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A sapphire worth at least 1,000 gp.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Interposing Hand
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Force]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 5
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, F
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  10-ft. hand
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round/level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Interposing hand }{\fs20\cf0 creates a Large magic hand that appears between you and one opponent. This floating, disembodied hand then mo
ves to remain between the two of you, regardless of where you move or how the opponent tries to get around it, providing cover (+4 AC) for you against that opponent. Nothing can fool the hand\emdash 
it sticks with the selected opponent in spite of darkness, invisibility, polymorphing, or any other attempt at hiding or disguise. The hand does not pursue an opponent, however.
\par An }{\i\fs20\cf0 interposing hand }{\fs20\cf0 is 10 feet long and about that wide with its fingers outstretched. It has as many hit points as you do when you\rquote re undamaged, and its AC is 20 (\endash 
1 size, +11 natural). It takes damage as a normal creature, but most magical effects that don\rquote t cause damage do not affect it.
\par The hand never provokes attacks of opportunity from opponents. It cannot push through a }{\i\fs20\cf0 wall of force }{\fs20\cf0 or enter an }{\i\fs20\cf0 antimagic field}{\fs20\cf0 , but it suffers the full effect of a }{\i\fs20\cf0 prismatic wall }{
\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 prismatic sphere. }{\fs20\cf0 The hand makes saving throws as its caster.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Disintegrate }{\fs20\cf0 or a successful }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel magic }{\fs20\cf0 destroys it.
\par Any creature weighing 2,000 pounds or less that tries to push past the hand is slowed to half its normal speed. The hand cannot reduce the speed of a creature weighing more than 2,000 pounds, but it still affects the creature\rquote s attacks.
\par Directing the spell to a new target is a move action.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Focus: }{\fs20\cf0 A soft glove.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Invisibility
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Illusion (Glamer)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 2, Trickery 2
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M/DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Personal or touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  You or a creature or object weighing no more than 100 lb./level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 min./level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (harmless) or Will negates (harmless, object)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (harmless) or Yes (harmless, object)
\par The creature or object touched becomes invisible, vanishing from sight, even 
from darkvision. If the recipient is a creature carrying gear, that vanishes, too. If you cast the spell on someone else, neither you nor your allies can see the subject, unless you can normally see invisible things or you employ magic to do so.
\par Items drop
ped or put down by an invisible creature become visible; items picked up disappear if tucked into the clothing or pouches worn by the creature. Light, however, never becomes invisible, although a source of light can become so (thus, the effect is that of 
a light with no visible source). Any part of an item that the subject carries but that extends more than 10 feet from it becomes visible.
\par Of course, the subject is not magically }{\i\fs20\cf0 silenced, }{\fs20\cf0 and certain other conditions can render the recipient detectable (suc
h as stepping in a puddle). The spell ends if the subject attacks any creature. For purposes of this spell, an attack includes any spell targeting a foe or whose area or effect includes a foe. (Exactly who is a foe depends on the invisible character
\rquote s perc
eptions.) Actions directed at unattended objects do not break the spell. Causing harm indirectly is not an attack. Thus, an invisible being can open doors, talk, eat, climb stairs, summon monsters and have them attack, cut the ropes holding a rope bridge 
while enemies are on the bridge, remotely trigger traps, open a portcullis to release attack dogs, and so forth. If the subject attacks directly, however, it immediately becomes visible along with all its gear. Spells such as }{\i\fs20\cf0 bless }{
\fs20\cf0 that specifically affect allies but not foes are not attacks for this purpose, even when they include foes in their area.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Invisibility }{\fs20\cf0 can be made permanent (on objects only) with a }{\i\fs20\cf0 permanency }{\fs20\cf0 spell.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 An eyelash encased in a bit of gum arabic.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Invisibility, Greater
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Illusion (Glamer)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 4, Sor/Wiz 4
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  You or creature touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round/level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (harmless)
\par This spell functions like }{\i\fs20\cf0 invisibility}{\fs20\cf0 , except that it doesn\rquote t end if the subject attacks.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Invisibility, Mass
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Illusion (Glamer)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 7
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Targets:}{\fs20\cf0  Any number of creatures, no two of which can be more than 180 ft. apart
\par This spell functions like }{\i\fs20\cf0 invisibility, }{\fs20\cf0 
except that the effect is mobile with the group and is broken when anyone in the group attacks. Individuals in the group cannot see each other. The spell is broken for any individual who moves more than 180 feet from the nearest member of the group. (If o
nly two individuals are affected, the one moving away from the other one loses its invisibility. If both are moving away from each other, they both become visible when the distance between them exceeds 180 feet.)
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 An eyelash encased in a bit of gum arabic.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Invisibility Purge
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 3
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Personal
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  You
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 min./level (D)
\par You surround yourself with a sphere of power with a radius of 5 feet per caster level that negates all forms of invisibility.
\par Anything invisible becomes visible while in the area.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Invisibility Sphere
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Illusion (Glamer)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 3
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  10-ft.-radius emanation around the creature or object touched
\par This spell functions like }{\i\fs20\cf0 invisibility, }{\fs20\cf0 except that this spell confers invisibility upon all creatures within 10 feet of the recipient. The center of the effect is mobile with the recipient.
\par Those affected by this spell can see each other and themselves as if unaffected 
by the spell. Any affected creature moving out of the area becomes visible, but creatures moving into the area after the spell is cast do not become invisible. Affected creatures (other than the recipient) who attack negate the invisibility only for thems
elves. If the spell recipient attacks, the }{\i\fs20\cf0 invisibility sphere }{\fs20\cf0 ends.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Iron Body
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Earth 8, Sor/Wiz 8
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M/DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Personal
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  You
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 min./level (D)
\par This spell transforms your body into living iron, which grants you several powerful resistances and abilities.
\par You gain damage reduction 15/adamantine. You are immune to blindness, critical hits, ability score damage, deafness, disease, drowning, electrici
ty, poison, stunning, and all spells or attacks that affect your physiology or respiration, because you have no physiology or respiration while this spell is in effect. You take only half damage from acid and fire of all kinds. However, you also become vu
lnerable to all special attacks that affect iron golems.
\par You gain a +6 enhancement bonus to your Strength score, but you take a \endash 6 penalty to Dexterity as well (to a minimum Dexterity score of 1), and your speed is reduced to half normal. You have an arcane spell failure chance of 50% and a \endash 
8 armor check penalty, just as if you were clad in full plate armor. You cannot drink (and thus can\rquote t use potions) or play wind instruments.
\par Your unarmed attacks deal damage equal to a club sized for you (1d4 for Small characters or 1d6 for Medium characters), and you are considered armed when making unarmed attacks.
\par Your weight increases by a factor of ten, causing you to sink in water like a stone. However, you could survive the crushing pressure and lack of air at the bottom of the ocean\emdash at least until the spell duration expires.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A small piece of iron that was once part of either an iron golem, a hero\rquote s armor, or a war machine.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Ironwood
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Drd 6
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute/lb. created
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  0 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  An }{\i\fs20\cf0 ironwood }{\fs20\cf0 object weighing up to 5 lb./level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  One day/level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Ironwood }{\fs20\cf0 is a magical substance created by druids from normal wood. While remaining natural wood in almost every way, }{\i\fs20\cf0 ironwood }{\fs20\cf0 
is as strong, heavy, and resistant to fire as steel. Spells that affect metal or iron do not function on }{\i\fs20\cf0 ironwood}{\fs20\cf0 . Spells that affect wood do affect }{\i\fs20\cf0 ironwood}{\fs20\cf0 , although }{\i\fs20\cf0 ironwood }{\fs20\cf0 
does not burn. Using this spell with }{\i\fs20\cf0 wood shape }{\fs20\cf0 
or a wood-related Craft check, you can fashion wooden items that function as steel items. Thus, wooden plate armor and wooden swords can be created that are as durable as their normal steel counterparts. These items are freely usable by druids.
\par Further, if you make only half as much }{\i\fs20\cf0 ironwood }{\fs20\cf0 as the spell would normally allow, any weapon, shield, or suit of armor so created is treated as a magic item with a +1 enhancement bonus.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 Wood shaped into the form of the intended }{\i\fs20\cf0 ironwood }{\fs20\cf0 object.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Irresistible Dance
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 6, Sor/Wiz 8
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Living creature touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1d4+1 rounds
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par The subject feels an undeniable urge to dance and begins doing so, complete with foot shuffling and tapping. The spell effect makes it impossible for the subject to do anything other than caper and prance in place. The effect imposes a \endash 
4 penalty to Armor Class and a \endash 10 penalty on Reflex saves, and it negates any AC bonus granted by a shield the target holds. The dancing subject provokes attacks of opportunity each round on its turn.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Jump
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Drd 1, Rgr 1, Sor/Wiz 1
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Creature touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 min./level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (harmless)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par The subject gets a +10 enhancement bonus on Jump checks. The enhancement bonus increases to +20 at caster level 5th, and to +30 (the maximum) at caster level 9th.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A grasshopper\rquote s hind leg, which you break when the spell is cast.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Keen Edge
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 3
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Targets:}{\fs20\cf0  One weapon or fifty projectiles, all of which must be in contact with each other at the time of casting
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  10 min./level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (harmless, object)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (harmless, object)
\par This spell makes a weapon magically keen, improving its ability to deal telling blows. This transmutation doubles the threat range of the weapon. A threat range of 20 becomes 19\endash 20, a threat range of 19\endash 20 becomes 17\endash 
20, and a threat range of 18\endash 20 becomes 15\endash 20. The spell can be cast only on piercing or slashing weapons. If cast on arrows or crossbow bolts, the }{\i\fs20\cf0 keen edge }{\fs20\cf0 
on a particular projectile ends after one use, whether or not the missile strikes its intended target. (Treat shuriken as arrows, rather than as thrown weapons, for the purpose of this spell.)
\par Multiple effects that increase a weapon\rquote s threat range (such as the }{\i\fs20\cf0 keen edge }{\fs20\cf0 spell and the Improved Critical feat) don\rquote t stack. You can\rquote t cast this spell on a natural weapon, such as a claw.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Knock
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 2
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One door, box, or chest with an area of up to 10 sq. ft./level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 knock }{\fs20\cf0 spell opens stuck, barred, locked, }{\i\fs20\cf0 held, }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 arcane locked }{\fs20\cf0 doors. It opens secret doors, as well as locked or trick-openi
ng boxes or chests. It also loosens welds, shackles, or chains (provided they serve to hold closures shut). If used to open a }{\i\fs20\cf0 arcane locked }{\fs20\cf0 door, the spell does not remove the }{\i\fs20\cf0 arcane lock }{\fs20\cf0 
but simply suspends its functioning for 10 minutes. In all other cases, the door does not relock itself or become stuck again on its own. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Knock }{\fs20\cf0 
does not raise barred gates or similar impediments (such as a portcullis), nor does it affect ropes, vines, and the like. The effect is limited by the area. Each spell can undo as many as two means of preventing egress. 
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Know Direction
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Divination
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 0, Drd 0
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Personal
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  You
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par You instantly know the direction of north from your current position. The spell is effective in any environment in which \'93north\'94
 exists, but it may not work in extraplanar settings. Your knowledge of north is correct at the moment of casting, but you can get lost again within moments if you don\rquote t find some external reference point to help you keep track of direction.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Legend Lore
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Divination
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 4, Knowledge 7, Sor/Wiz 6
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M, F
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  See text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Personal
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  You
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  See text
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Legend lore }{\fs20\cf0 brings to your min
d legends about an important person, place, or thing. If the person or thing is at hand, or if you are in the place in question, the casting time is only 1d4x10 minutes. If you have only detailed information on the person, place, or thing, the casting tim
e is 1d10 days, and the resulting lore is less complete and specific (though it often provides enough information to help you find the person, place, or thing, thus allowing a better }{\i\fs20\cf0 legend lore }{\fs20\cf0 
result next time). If you know only rumors, the casting time is 2d6 weeks, and the resulting lore is vague and incomplete (though it often directs you to more detailed information, thus allowing a better }{\i\fs20\cf0 legend lore }{\fs20\cf0 
result next time).
\par During the casting, you cannot engage in other than routine activities: eating, sle
eping, and so forth. When completed, the divination brings legends (if any) about the person, place, or things to your mind. These may be legends that are still current, legends that have been forgotten, or even information that has never been generally k
nown. If the person, place, or thing is not of legendary importance, you gain no information. As a rule of thumb, characters who are 11th level and higher are \'93legendary,\'94
 as are the sorts of creatures they contend with, the major magic items they wield, and the places where they perform their key deeds.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 Incense worth at least 250 gp.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Focus: }{\fs20\cf0 Four strips of ivory (worth 50 gp each) formed into a rectangle.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Lesser (Spell Name)
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Any spell whose name begins with }{\i\fs20\cf0 lesser }{\fs20\cf0 is alphabetized in this chapter according to the second word of the spell name. Thus, the description of a }{\i\fs20\cf0 lesser }{\fs20\cf0 
spell appears near the description of the spell on which it is based. Spell chains that have }{\i\fs20\cf0 lesser }{\fs20\cf0 spells in them include those based on the spells }{\i\fs20\cf0 confusion, geas,
 globe of invulnerability, planar ally, planar binding, }{\fs20\cf0 and }{\i\fs20\cf0 restoration.
\par }{\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Levitate
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 2
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, F
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Personal or close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  You or one willing creature or one object (total weight up to 100 lb./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 min./level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Levitate }{\fs20\cf0 allows you to move yourself, another creature, or an object up and down as you wish. A creature must be willing to be }{\i\fs20\cf0 levitated, }{\fs20\cf0 and a
n object must be unattended or possessed by a willing creature. You can mentally direct the recipient to move up or down as much as 20 feet each round; doing so is a move action. You cannot move the recipient horizontally, but the recipient could clamber 
along the face of a cliff, for example, or push against a ceiling to move laterally (generally at half its base land speed).
\par A }{\i\fs20\cf0 levitating }{\fs20\cf0 creature that attacks with a melee or ranged weapon finds itself increasingly unstable; the first attack has a \endash 1 penalty on attack rolls, the second \endash 2, and so on, to a maximum penalty of \endash 
5. A full round spent stabilizing allows the creature to begin again at \endash 1.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Focus: }{\fs20\cf0 Either a small leather loop or a piece of golden wire bent into a cup shape with a long shank on one end.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Light
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Light]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 0, Clr 0, Drd 0, Sor/Wiz 0
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, M/DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Object touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  10 min./level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par This spell causes an object to glow like a torch, shedding bright light in a 20-foot radius (and dim light for an additional 20 feet) from the point you touch. The effect is immobile, but
 it can be cast on a movable object. Light taken into an area of magical }{\i\fs20\cf0 darkness }{\fs20\cf0 does not function.
\par A light spell (one with the light descriptor) counters and dispels a darkness spell (one with the darkness descriptor) of an equal or lower level.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A firefly or a piece of phosphorescent moss.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Lightning Bolt
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Electricity]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 3
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  120 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  120-ft. line
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Reflex half
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par You release a powerful stroke of electrical energy that deals 1d6 points of electricity damage per caster level (maximum 10d6) to each creature within its area. The bolt begins at your fingertips.
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 lightning bolt }{\fs20\cf0 sets fire to comb
ustibles and damages objects in its path. It can melt metals with a low melting point, such as lead, gold, copper, silver, or bronze. If the damage caused to an interposing barrier shatters or breaks through it, the bolt may continue beyond the barrier if
 the spell\rquote s range permits; otherwise, it stops at the barrier just as any other spell effect does.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A bit of fur and an amber, crystal, or glass rod.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Limited Wish
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Universal
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 7
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, XP
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  See text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target, Effect, or Area:}{\fs20\cf0  See text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  See text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par A }{\i\fs20\cf0 limited wish }{\fs20\cf0 lets you create nearly any type of effect. For example, a }{\i\fs20\cf0 limited wish }{\fs20\cf0 can do any of the following things.
\par }{\cf0 \bullet  }{\fs20\cf0 Duplicate any sorcerer/wizard spell of 6th level or lower, provided the spell is not of a school prohibited to you.
\par }{\cf0 \bullet  }{\fs20\cf0 Duplicate any other spell of 5th level or lower, provided the spell is not of a school prohibited to you.
\par }{\cf0 \bullet  }{\fs20\cf0 Duplicate any sorcerer/wizard spell of 5th level or lower, even if it\rquote s of a prohibited school.
\par }{\cf0 \bullet  }{\fs20\cf0 Duplicate any other spell of 4th level or lower, even if it\rquote s of a prohibited school.
\par }{\cf0 \bullet  }{\fs20\cf0 Undo the harmful effects of many spells, such as }{\i\fs20\cf0 geas/quest }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 insanity}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\cf0 \bullet  }{\fs20\cf0 Produce any other effect whose power level is in line with the above effects, such as a single creature automatically hitting on its next attack or taking a \endash 7 penalty on its next saving throw.
\par A duplicated spell allows saving throws and spell resistance as normal (but the save DC is for a 7th-level spell). When a }{\i\fs20\cf0 limited wish }{\fs20\cf0 
duplicates a spell that has an XP cost, you must pay that cost or 300 XP, whichever is more. When a }{\i\fs20\cf0 limited wish }{\fs20\cf0 spell duplicates a spell with a material component that costs more than 1,000 gp, you must provide that component.

\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 XP Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 300 XP or more (see above).
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Liveoak
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Drd 6
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  10 minutes
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Tree touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  One day/level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par This spell turns an oak tree into a protector or guardian. The spell can be cast on only a single tree at a time; while }{\i\fs20\cf0 liveoak }{\fs20\cf0 is in effect, you can\rquote 
t cast it again on another tree. The tree on which the spell is cast must be within 10 feet of your dwelling place, within a place sacred to you, or within 300 feet of something that you wish to guard or protect.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Liveoak }{\fs20\cf0 must be cast on a healthy, Huge oak. A triggering phrase of up to one word per caster level is placed on the targeted oak. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 liveoak }{\fs20\cf0 spell triggers the tree into animating as a treant. 
\par If }{\i\fs20\cf0 liveoak }{\fs20\cf0 is dispelled, the tree takes root immediately, wherever it happens to be. If released by you, the tree tries to return to its original location before taking root.
\par }{\cf0 
\par Locate Creature
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Divination
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 4, Sor/Wiz 4
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  10 min./level
\par This spell functions like }{\i\fs20\cf0 locate object, }{\fs20\cf0 except this spell locates a known or familiar creature.
\par You slowly turn and sense when you are facing in the direction of the creature to be located, provided it is within range. You also know in which direction the creature is moving, if any.
\par The spell can locate a creature of a specific kind or a specific creature known to you. It cannot find a creature of a certain type. To find a kind of creature, you must have seen such a creature up close (within 30 feet) at least once.
\par Running water blocks the spell. It cannot detect objects. It can be fooled by }{\i\fs20\cf0 mislead}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 nondetection}{\fs20\cf0 , and }{\i\fs20\cf0 polymorph }{\fs20\cf0 spells.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A bit of fur from a bloodhound.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Locate Object
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Divination
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 2, Clr 3, Sor/Wiz 2, Travel 2
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, F/DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  Circle, centered on you, with a radius of 400 ft. + 40 ft./level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 min./level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par You sense the direction of a well-known or clearly visualized object. You can search for general items, in which case you locate the nearest one of its kind if more than one is within range. Attempting to find a certain item re
quires a specific and accurate mental image; if the image is not close enough to the actual object, the spell fails. You cannot specify a unique item unless you have observed that particular item firsthand (not through divination).
\par The spell is blocked by even a thin sheet of lead. Creatures cannot be found by this spell. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Polymorph any object }{\fs20\cf0 fools it.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Focus: }{\fs20\cf0 A forked twig.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Longstrider
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Drd 1, Rgr 1, Travel 1
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Personal
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  You
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 hour/level (D)
\par This spell increases your base land speed by 10 feet. (This adjustment counts as an enhancement bonus.) It has no effect on other modes of movement, such as burrow, climb, fly, or swim.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A pinch of dirt.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Lullaby
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 0
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  Living creatures within a 10-ft.-radius burst
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Concentration + 1 round/level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par Any creature within the area that fails a Will save becomes drowsy and inattentive, taking a \endash 5 penalty on Listen and Spot checks and a \endash 2 penalty on Will saves against }{\i\fs20\cf0 sleep }{\fs20\cf0 effects while the }{\i\fs20\cf0 lullaby 
}{\fs20\cf0 is in effect. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Lullaby }{\fs20\cf0 lasts for as long as the caster concentrates, plus up to 1 round per caster level thereafter.
\par }}