{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New{\*\falt Courier};}{\f32\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f33\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f35\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f36\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f37\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f38\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f39\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f48\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f49\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr{\*\falt Courier};}{\f51\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek{\*\falt Courier};}{\f52\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f53\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier};}{\f54\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic){\*\falt Courier};}{\f55\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic{\*\falt Courier};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\qr \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{
\s4\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 4;}{\s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel4\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\i\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 5;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext15 Body Text;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Body Text 2;}{\s17\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar
\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 Preformatted;}}{\info
{\title The spells herein are presented in alphabetical order (with the exception of those whose names begin with \'93greater,\'94 \'93lesser,\'94}{\author AKSmith}{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2003\mo7\dy1\hr13\min54}
{\revtim\yr2003\mo10\dy22\hr13\min13}{\version4}{\edmins6}{\nofpages19}{\nofwords9053}{\nofchars51606}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws63375}{\vern8203}}\margl1080\margr1080\margt1080\margb1080 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace120\dgvspace180\dghorigin1080\dgvorigin1080\dghshow2\dgvshow2
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 
This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{\f0\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs36\cf0 SPELLS (A-B)
\par }{\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Acid Arrow
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Creation) [Acid]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 2
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M, F
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  One arrow of acid
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round + 1 round per three levels
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par A magical arrow of acid springs from your hand and speeds to its target. You must succeed on a ranged touch attack
 to hit your target. The arrow deals 2d4 points of acid damage with no splash damage. For every three caster levels (to a maximum of 18th), the acid, unless somehow neutralized, lasts for another round, dealing another 2d4 points of damage in that round.

\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 Powdered rhubarb leaf and an adder\rquote s stomach.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Focus: }{\fs20\cf0 A dart.
\par }{\cf0 
\par Acid Fog
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Creation) [Acid]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 6, Water 7
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M/DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  Fog spreads in 20-ft. radius, 20 ft. high
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round/level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Acid fog }{\fs20\cf0 creates a billowing mass of misty vapors similar to that produced by a }{\i\fs20\cf0 solid fog }{\fs20\cf0 spell. In addition to slowing creatures down and obscuring sight, this spell\rquote 
s vapors are highly acidic. Each round on your turn, starting when you cast the spell, the fog deals 2d6 points of acid damage to each creature and object within it.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Material Component:}{\fs20\cf0  A pinch of dried, powdered peas combined with powdered animal hoof.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Acid Splash
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Creation) [Acid]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 0
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  One missile of acid
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par You fire a small orb of acid at the target. You must succeed on a ranged touch attack to hit your target. The orb deals 1d3 points of acid damage.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Aid}{\fs20\cf0 
\par Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 2, Good 2, Luck 2
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Living creature touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 min./level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (harmless)
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Aid }{\fs20\cf0 grants the target a +1 morale bonus on attack rolls and saves against fear effects, plus temporary hit points equal to 1d8 + caster level (to a maximum of 1d8+10 temporary hit points at caster level 10th).
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Air Walk
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation [Air]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Air 4, Clr 4, Drd 4
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Creature (Gargantuan or smaller) touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  10 min./level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (harmless)
\par The subject can tread on air as if walking on solid ground. Moving upward is similar to walking up a hill. The maximum upward or downward angle possible is 45 degrees, at a rate equal to one-half the air walker\rquote s normal speed.
\par A strong wind (21+ mph) can push the subject along or hold it back. At the end of its turn each round, the wind blows the air walker 5 feet for each 5 miles per hour of wind speed. The creature may be subject to additional penalties in exceptionally stron
g or turbulent winds, such as loss of control over movement or physical damage from being buffeted about.
\par Should the spell duration expire while the subject is still aloft, the magic fails slowly. The subject floats downward 60 feet per round for 1d6 rounds
. If it reaches the ground in that amount of time, it lands safely. If not, it falls the rest of the distance, taking 1d6 points of damage per 10 feet of fall. Since dispelling a spell effectively ends it, the subject also descends in this way if the }{
\i\fs20\cf0 air walk }{\fs20\cf0 spell is dispelled, but not if it is negated by an }{\i\fs20\cf0 antimagic field}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par You can cast }{\i\fs20\cf0 air walk }{\fs20\cf0 on a specially trained mount so it can be ridden through the air. You can train a mount to move with the aid of }{\i\fs20\cf0 air walk }{\fs20\cf0 (counts as a trick; see Handle Animal ski
ll) with one week of work and a DC 25 Handle Animal check.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Alarm
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjuration
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 1, Rgr 1, Sor/Wiz 1
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, F/DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  20-ft.-radius emanation centered on a point in space
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  2 hours/level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par A}{\i\fs20\cf0 larm }{\fs20\cf0 sounds a mental or audible alarm each time a creature of Tiny or larger size enters the warded area or touches it. A creature that speaks the password (determined by you at the time of casting) does not set off the }{
\i\fs20\cf0 alarm}{\fs20\cf0 . You decide at the time of casting whether the }{\i\fs20\cf0 alarm }{\fs20\cf0 will be mental or audible.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Mental Alarm: }{\fs20\cf0 A mental }{\i\fs20\cf0 alarm }{\fs20\cf0 alerts you (and only you) so long as you remain within 1 mile of the warded area. You note a single mental \'93ping\'94
 that awakens you from normal sleep but does not otherwise disturb concentration. A }{\i\fs20\cf0 silence }{\fs20\cf0 spell has no effect on a mental }{\i\fs20\cf0 alarm}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Audible Alarm: }{\fs20\cf0 An audible }{\i\fs20\cf0 alarm }{\fs20\cf0 produces the sound of a han
d bell, and anyone within 60 feet of the warded area can hear it clearly. Reduce the distance by 10 feet for each interposing closed door and by 20 feet for each substantial interposing wall.
\par In quiet conditions, the ringing can be heard faintly as far as 180 feet away. The sound lasts for 1 round. Creatures within a }{\i\fs20\cf0 silence }{\fs20\cf0 spell cannot hear the ringing.
\par Ethereal or astral creatures do not trigger the }{\i\fs20\cf0 alarm}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Alarm }{\fs20\cf0 can be made permanent with a }{\i\fs20\cf0 permanency }{\fs20\cf0 spell.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Focus:}{\fs20\cf0  A tiny bell and a piece of very fine silver wire
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Align Weapon
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation [see text]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 2
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 Weapon touched or fifty projectiles (all of which must be in contact with each other at the time of casting)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 min./level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (harmless, object)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (harmless, object)
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Align weapon }{\fs20\cf0 makes a weapon good, evil, lawful, or chaotic, as you choose. A weapon that is aligned can bypass the damage reduction of certain creatures. This spell has no effect on a weapon that already has an alignment.
\par You can\rquote t cast this spell on a natural weapon, such as an unarmed strike.
\par When you make a weapon good, evil, lawful, or chaotic, }{\i\fs20\cf0 align weapon }{\fs20\cf0 is a good, evil, lawful, or chaotic spell, respectively.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Alter Self
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 2
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Personal
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  You
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  10 min./level (D)
\par You assume the form of a creature of the same type as your normal form. The new fo
rm must be within one size category of your normal size. The maximum HD of an assumed form is equal to your caster level, to a maximum of 5 HD at 5th level. You can change into a member of your own kind or even into yourself.
\par You retain your own ability sc
ores. Your class and level, hit points, alignment, base attack bonus, and base save bonuses all remain the same. You retain all supernatural and spell-like special attacks and qualities of your normal form, except for those requiring a body part that the 
new form does not have (such as a mouth for a breath weapon or eyes for a gaze attack).
\par You keep all extraordinary special attacks and qualities derived from class levels, but you lose any from your normal form that are not derived from class levels.
\par If the
 new form is capable of speech, you can communicate normally. You retain any spellcasting ability you had in your original form, but the new form must be able to speak intelligibly (that is, speak a language) to use verbal components and must have limbs c
apable of fine manipulation to use somatic or material components.
\par You acquire the physical qualities of the new form while retaining your own mind. Physical qualities include natural size, mundane movement capabilities (such as burrowing, climbing, walking
, swimming, and flight with wings, to a maximum speed of 120 feet for flying or 60 feet for nonflying movement), natural armor bonus, natural weapons (such as claws, bite, and so on), racial skill bonuses, racial bonus feats, and any gross physical qualit
ies (presence or absence of wings, number of extremities, and so forth). A body with extra limbs does not allow you to make more attacks (or more advantageous two-weapon attacks) than normal.
\par You do not gain any extraordinary special attacks or special qualities not noted above under physical qualities, such as darkvision, low-light vision, blindsense, blindsight, fast healing, regeneration, scent, and so forth.
\par You do not gain any supernatural special attacks, special qualities, or spell-like abilities of t
he new form. Your creature type and subtype (if any) remain the same regardless of your new form. You cannot take the form of any creature with a template, even if that template doesn\rquote t change the creature type or subtype.
\par You can freely designate the new form\rquote s minor physical qualities (such as hair color, hair texture, and skin color) within the normal ranges for a creature of that kind. The new form\rquote 
s significant physical qualities (such as height, weight, and gender) are also under your control, but they must fall within the norms for the new form\rquote s kind. You are effectively disguised as an average member of the new form\rquote 
s race. If you use this spell to create a disguise, you get a +10 bonus on your Disguise check.
\par When the change occurs, your equipment,
 if any, either remains worn or held by the new form (if it is capable of wearing or holding the item), or melds into the new form and becomes nonfunctional. When you revert to your true form, any objects previously melded into the new form reappear in th
e same location on your body they previously occupied and are once again functional. Any new items you wore in the assumed form and can\rquote 
t wear in your normal form fall off and land at your feet; any that you could wear in either form or carry in a body part
 common to both forms at the time of reversion are still held in the same way. Any part of the body or piece of equipment that is separated from the whole reverts to its true form.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Analyze Dweomer
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Divination
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 6, Sor/Wiz 6
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, F
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Targets:}{\fs20\cf0  One object or creature per caster level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round/level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None or Will negates; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par You discern all spells and magical propert
ies present in a number of creatures or objects. Each round, you may examine a single creature or object that you can see as a free action. In the case of a magic item, you learn its functions, how to activate its functions (if appropriate), and how many 
charges are left (if it uses charges). In the case of an object or creature with active spells cast upon it, you learn each spell, its effect, and its caster level.
\par An attended object may attempt a Will save to resist this effect if its holder so desires. I
f the save succeeds, you learn nothing about the object except what you can discern by looking at it. An object that makes its save cannot be affected by any other }{\i\fs20\cf0 analyze dweomer }{\fs20\cf0 spells for 24 hours.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Analyze dweomer }{\fs20\cf0 does not function when used on an artifact.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Focus: }{\fs20\cf0 A tiny lens of ruby or sapphire set in a small golden loop. The gemstone must be worth at least 1,500 gp.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Animal Growth
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Drd 5, Rgr 4, Sor/Wiz 5
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Targets:}{\fs20\cf0  Up to one animal (Gargantuan or smaller) per two levels, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 min./level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Fortitude negates
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par A number of animals grow to twice their normal size and eight times their normal weight. This alteration changes each animal\rquote 
s size category to the next largest, grants it a +8 size bonus to Strength and a +4 size bonus to Constitution (and thus an extra 2 hit points per HD), and imposes a \endash 2 size penalty to Dexterity. The creature\rquote 
s existing natural armor bonus increases by 2. The size change also affects the animal\rquote s modifier to AC and attack rolls and its base damage. The animal\rquote s space and reach change as appropriate to the new size, but its speed does not change.

\par The spell also grants each subject damage reduction 10/magic and a +4 resistance bonus on saving throws. If insufficient room is available for the desired growth, the creature attains the maximum possible size and may make a Stren
gth check (using its increased Strength) to burst any enclosures in the process. If it fails, it is constrained without harm by the materials enclosing it\emdash  the spell cannot be used to crush a creature by increasing its size.
\par All equipment worn or carried by an animal is similarly enlarged by the spell, though this change has no effect on the magical properties of any such equipment.
\par Any enlarged item that leaves the enlarged creature\rquote s possession instantly returns to its normal size.
\par The spell gives no means of command or influence over the enlarged animals.
\par Multiple magical effects that increase size do not stack.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Animal Messenger
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 2, Drd 2, Rgr 1
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One Tiny animal
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  One day/level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par You compel a Tiny animal to go to a spot you designate. The most common use for this spell is to get an animal to carry a me
ssage to your allies. The animal cannot be one tamed or trained by someone else, including such creatures as familiars and animal companions.
\par Using some type of food desirable to the animal as a lure, you call the animal to you. It advances and awaits your
 bidding. You can mentally impress on the animal a certain place well known to you or an obvious landmark. The directions must be simple, because the animal depends on your knowledge and can\rquote 
t find a destination on its own. You can attach some small item or note to the messenger. The animal then goes to the designated location and waits there until the duration of the spell expires, whereupon it resumes its normal activities.
\par During this period of waiting, the messenger allows others to approach it and remove any scroll or token it carries. The intended recipient gains no special ability to communicate with the animal or read any attached message (if it\rquote 
s written in a language he or she doesn\rquote t know, for example).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A morsel of food the animal likes.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Animal Shapes
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Animal 7, Drd 8
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Targets:}{\fs20\cf0  Up to one willing creature per level, all within 30 ft. of each other
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 hour/level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (harmless)
\par As }{\i\fs20\cf0 polymorph, }{\fs20\cf0 except you polymorph up to one willing creature per caster level into an animal of your choice; the spell has no effect on unwilling creatures. All creatures must take the sam
e kind of animal form. Recipients remain in the animal form until the spell expires or until you dismiss it for all recipients. In addition, an individual subject may choose to resume its normal form as a full-round action; doing so ends the spell for tha
t subject alone. The maximum HD of an assumed form is equal to the subject\rquote s HD or your caster level, whichever is lower, to a maximum of 20 HD at 20th level.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Animal Trance
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting, Sonic]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 2, Drd 2
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Targets:}{\fs20\cf0  Animals or magical beasts with Intelligence 1 or 2
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Concentration
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par Your swaying motions and music (or s
inging, or chanting) compel animals and magical beasts to do nothing but watch you. Only a creature with an Intelligence score of 1 or 2 can be fascinated by this spell. Roll 2d6 to determine the total number of HD worth of creatures that you fascinate. T
he closest targets are selected first until no more targets within range can be affected.
\par A magical beast, a dire animal, or an animal trained to attack or guard is allowed a saving throw; an animal not trained to attack or guard is not.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Animate Dead
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Necromancy [Evil]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 3, Death 3, Sor/Wiz 4
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Targets:}{\fs20\cf0  One or more corpses touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par This spell turns the bones or bodies of dead creatures into undead skeletons or zombies that follow your spoken commands.
\par The undead can follow you, or they can remain in an area and attack any creature (or just a specific kind of creature) entering the place. They remain animated until they are destroyed. (A destroyed skeleton or zombie can\rquote t be animated again.)

\par Regardless of the type of undead you create with this spell, you can\rquote t create more HD of undead than twice your caster level with a single casting of }{\i\fs20\cf0 animate dead}{\fs20\cf0 . (The }{\i\fs20\cf0 desecrate }{\fs20\cf0 spell dou
bles this limit)
\par The undead you create remain under your control indefinitely. No matter how many times you use this spell, however, you can control only 4 HD worth of undead creatures per caster level. If you exceed this number, all the newly created crea
tures fall under your control, and any excess undead from previous castings become uncontrolled. (You choose which creatures are released.) If you are a cleric, any undead you might command by virtue of your power to command or rebuke undead do not count 
toward the limit.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Skeletons: }{\fs20\cf0 A skeleton can be created only from a mostly intact corpse or skeleton. The corpse must have bones. If a skeleton is made from a corpse, the flesh falls off the bones. 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Zombies: }{\fs20\cf0 A zombie can be created only from a mostly intact corpse. The corpse must be that of a creature with a true anatomy.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 You must place a black onyx gem worth at least 25 gp per Hit Die of the undead into the mouth or eye socket of each corpse you intend to animate. The magic of the spell 
turns these gems into worthless, burned-out shells.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Animate Objects
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 6, Chaos 6, Clr 6
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Targets:}{\fs20\cf0  One Small object per caster level; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round/level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par You imbue inanimate objects with mobility and a semblance of life. Each such animated object then immediately attacks whomever or whatever you initially designate.
\par An animated object can be of
 any nonmagical material. You may animate one Small or smaller object or an equivalent number of larger objects per caster level. A Medium object counts as two Small or smaller objects, a Large object as four, a Huge object as eight, a Gargantuan object a
s sixteen, and a Colossal object as thirty-two. You can change the designated target or targets as a move action, as if directing an active spell.
\par This spell cannot animate objects carried or worn by a creature.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Animate objects }{\fs20\cf0 can be made permanent with a }{\i\fs20\cf0 permanency }{\fs20\cf0 spell.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Animate Plants
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Drd 7, Plant 7
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Targets:}{\fs20\cf0  One Large plant per three caster levels or all plants within range; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round/level or 1 hour/level; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par You imbue inanimate plants with mobility and a semblance of life. Each animated plant then immediately attacks whomever or whatever you initially designate as though it were an anim
ated object of the appropriate size category. You may animate one Large or smaller plant, or an equivalent number of larger plants, per three caster levels. A Huge plant counts as two Large or smaller plants, a Gargantuan plant as four, and a Colossal pla
nt as eight. You can change the designated target or targets as a move action, as if directing an active spell.
\par Use the statistics for animated objects}{\i\fs20\cf0 , }{\fs20\cf0 except that plants smaller than Large usually don\rquote t have hardness.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Animate plants }{\fs20\cf0 cannot affect plant creatures, nor does it affect nonliving vegetable material.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Entangle: }{\fs20\cf0 Alternatively, you may imbue all plants within range with a degree of mobility, which allows them to entwine around creatures in the area. This usage of the spell duplicates the effect of an }{\i\fs20\cf0 entangle }{
\fs20\cf0 spell. Spell resistance does not keep creatures from being entangled. This effect lasts 1 hour per caster level.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Animate Rope
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 1, Sor/Wiz 1
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One ropelike object, length up to 50 ft. + 5 ft./level; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round/level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par You can animate a nonliving ropelike object. The maximum length assumes a rope with a 1-inch diameter.
\par Reduce the maximum length by 50% for every additional inch of thickness, and increase it by 50% for each reduction of the rope\rquote s diameter by half.
\par The possible commands are \'93coil\'94 (form a neat, coiled stack), \'93coil and knot,\'94 \'93loop,\'94 \'93loop and knot,\'94 \'93tie and knot,\'94 and the opposites of all of the above (\'93uncoil,\'94
 and so forth). You can give one command each round as a move action, as if directing an active spell.
\par The rope can enwrap only a creature or an object within 1 foot of it\emdash it does not snake outward\emdash 
so it must be thrown near the intended target. Doing so requires a successful ranged touch attack roll (range increment 10 feet). A typical 1- inch-diameter hempen rope has 2 hit points, AC 10, and requires a DC 23 Strength check to burst 
it. The rope does not deal damage, but it can be used as a trip line or to cause a single opponent that fails a Reflex saving throw to become entangled. A creature capable of spellcasting that is bound by this spell must make a DC 15 Concentration check t
o cast a spell. An entangled creature can slip free with a DC 20 Escape Artist check.
\par The rope itself and any knots tied in it are not magical.
\par This spell grants a +2 bonus on any Use Rope checks you make when using the transmuted rope.
\par The spell cannot animate objects carried or worn by a creature.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Antilife Shell
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjuration
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Animal 6, Clr 6, Drd 6
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  10 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  10-ft.-radius emanation, centered on you
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  10 min./level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par You bring into being a mobile, hemispherical energy field that prevents the entrance of most types of living creatures.
\par The effect hedges out animals, aberrations, dragons, fey, giants, humanoids, magical beasts, monstrous humanoids, oozes, plants, and vermin, but not constructs, elementals, outsiders, or undead.
\par This spell may be used only defensively, not aggressively. Forcing an abjuration barrier against creatures that the spell keeps at bay collapses the barrier.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Antimagic Field
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjuration
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 8, Magic 6, Protection 6, Sor/Wiz 6
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M/DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  10 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  10-ft.-radius emanation, centered on you
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  10 min./level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  See text
\par An invisible barrier surrounds you and moves with you. The space within this barrier is impervious to most magical effects, including spells, spell-li
ke abilities, and supernatural abilities. Likewise, it prevents the functioning of any magic items or spells within its confines.
\par An }{\i\fs20\cf0 antimagic field }{\fs20\cf0 suppresses any spell or magical effect used within, brought into, or cast into the area, but does not dispel it. Time spent within an }{\i\fs20\cf0 antimagic field }{\fs20\cf0 
counts against the suppressed spell\rquote s duration.
\par Summoned creatures of any type and incorporeal undead wink out if they enter an }{\i\fs20\cf0 antimagic field. }{\fs20\cf0 They reappear in the same spot once the field goes away. Time spent 
winked out counts normally against the duration of the conjuration that is maintaining the creature. If you cast }{\i\fs20\cf0 antimagic field }{\fs20\cf0 
in an area occupied by a summoned creature that has spell resistance, you must make a caster level check (1d20 + caster level) against the creature\rquote s spell resistance to make it wink out. (The effects of instantaneous conjurations}{\i\fs20\cf0  }{
\fs20\cf0 are not affected by an }{\i\fs20\cf0 antimagic field }{\fs20\cf0 because the conjuration itself is no longer in effect, only its result.)
\par A normal creature can enter the area, as
 can normal missiles. Furthermore, while a magic sword does not function magically within the area, it is still a sword (and a masterwork sword at that). The spell has no effect on golems and other constructs that are imbued with magic during their creati
on process and are thereafter self-supporting (unless they have been summoned, in which case they are treated like any other summoned creatures). Elementals, corporeal undead, and outsiders are likewise unaffected unless summoned. These creatures\rquote 
 spell-like or supernatural abilities, however, may be temporarily nullified by the field. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Dispel magic }{\fs20\cf0 does not remove the field.
\par Two or more }{\i\fs20\cf0 antimagic fields }{\fs20\cf0 sharing any of the same space have no effect on each other. Certain spells, such as }{\i\fs20\cf0 wall of force, prismatic sphere}{\fs20\cf0 , and }{\i\fs20\cf0 prismatic wall, }{\fs20\cf0 
remain unaffected by }{\i\fs20\cf0 antimagic field }{\fs20\cf0 (see the individual spell descriptions). Artifacts and deities are unaffected by mortal magic such as this. 
\par Should a creature be larger than the area enclosed by the barrier, any part of it that lies outside the barrier is unaffected by the field.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A pinch of powdered iron or iron filings.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Antipathy
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Drd 9, Sor/Wiz 8
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M/DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 hour
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One location (up to a 10-ft. cube/level) or one object
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  2 hours/level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will partial
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par You cause an object or location to emanate magical vibrations that repel either a specific kind of intelligent creature or creatures of a particular alignment, as defined by you. The kind of creature to be affected must be named specifically. A creature s
ubtype is not specific enough. Likewise, the specific alignment to be repelled must be named.
\par Creatures of the designated kind or alignment feel an overpowering urge to leave the area or to avoid the affected item.
\par A compulsion forces them to abandon the ar
ea or item, shunning it and never willingly returning to it while the spell is in effect. A creature that makes a successful saving throw can stay in the area or touch the item but feels uncomfortable doing so. This distracting discomfort reduces the crea
ture\rquote s Dexterity score by 4 points.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Antipathy }{\fs20\cf0 counters and dispels }{\i\fs20\cf0 sympathy}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A lump of alum soaked in vinegar.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Antiplant Shell
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjuration
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Drd 4
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  10 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  10-ft.-radius emanation, centered on you
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  10 min./level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 antiplant shell }{\fs20\cf0 spell creates an invisible, mobile barrier that keeps all creatures within the shell protected from attacks by plant creature
s or animated plants. As with many abjuration spells, forcing the barrier against creatures that the spell keeps at bay strains and collapses the field.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Arcane Eye
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Divination (Scrying)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 4
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  10 minutes
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Unlimited
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect: }{\fs20\cf0 Magical sensor
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 min./level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par You create an invisible magical sensor that sends you visual information. You can create the }{\i\fs20\cf0 arcane eye }{\fs20\cf0 at any point you can see, but it can then travel outside your line of sight without hindrance. An }{\i\fs20\cf0 arcane eye }{
\fs20\cf0 travels at 30 feet per round (300 feet per minute) if viewing an area ahead as a human would (primarily looking at the floor) or 10 feet per round 
(100 feet per minute) if examining the ceiling and walls as well as the floor ahead. It sees exactly as you would see if you were there.
\par The eye can travel in any direction as long as the spell lasts. Solid barriers block its passage, but it can pass through a hole or space as small as 1 inch in diameter. The eye can\rquote t enter another plane of existence, even through a }{\i\fs20\cf0 
gate }{\fs20\cf0 or similar magical portal.
\par You must concentrate to use an }{\i\fs20\cf0 arcane eye. }{\fs20\cf0 If you do not concentrate, the eye is inert until you again concentrate.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A bit of bat fur.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Arcane Lock
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjuration
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 2
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  The door, chest, or portal touched, up to 30 sq. ft./level in size
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Permanent
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par An }{\i\fs20\cf0 arcane lock }{\fs20\cf0 spell cast upon a door, chest, or portal magically locks it. You can freely pass your own }{\i\fs20\cf0 arcane lock }{\fs20\cf0 
without affecting it; otherwise, a door or object secured with this spell can be opened only by breaking in or with a successful }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel magic }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 knock }{\fs20\cf0 
spell. Add 10 to the normal DC to break open a door or portal affected by this spell. (A }{\i\fs20\cf0 knock }{\fs20\cf0 spell does not remove an }{\i\fs20\cf0 arcane lock; }{\fs20\cf0 it only suppresses the effect for 10 minutes.)
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 Gold dust worth 25 gp.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Arcane Mark
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Universal
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 0
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  0 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  One personal rune or mark, all of which must fit within 1 sq. ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Permanent
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par This spell allows you to inscribe your personal rune or mark, which can consist of no more than six characters. The writing can be visible or invisible. An }{\i\fs20\cf0 arcane mark }{\fs20\cf0 
spell enables you to etch the rune upon any substance without harm to the material upon which it is placed. If an invisible mark is made, a }{\i\fs20\cf0 detect magic }{\fs20\cf0 
spell causes it to glow and be visible, though not necessarily understandable.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 See invisibility, true seeing}{\fs20\cf0 , a }{\i\fs20\cf0 gem of seeing}{\fs20\cf0 , or a }{\i\fs20\cf0 robe of eyes }{\fs20\cf0 likewise allows the user to see an invisible }{\i\fs20\cf0 arcane mark. }{\fs20\cf0 A }{\i\fs20\cf0 read magic 
}{\fs20\cf0 spell reveals the words, if any. The mark cannot be dispelled, but it can be removed by the caster or by an }{\i\fs20\cf0 erase }{\fs20\cf0 spell.
\par If an }{\i\fs20\cf0 arcane mark }{\fs20\cf0 is placed on a living being, normal wear gradually causes the effect to fade in about a month.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane mark }{\fs20\cf0 must be cast on an object prior to casting }{\i\fs20\cf0 instant summons }{\fs20\cf0 on the same object (see that spell description for details).
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Arcane Sight
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Divination
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 3
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Personal
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  You
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 min./level (D)
\par This spell makes your eyes glow blue and allows you to see magical auras within 120 feet of you. The effect is similar to that of a }{\i\fs20\cf0 detect magic }{\fs20\cf0 spell, but }{\i\fs20\cf0 arcane sight }{\fs20\cf0 
does not require concentration and discerns aura location and power more quickly.
\par You know the location and power of all magical auras within your sight. An aura\rquote s power depends on a spell\rquote s functioning level or an item\rquote s caster level, as noted in the description of the }{\i\fs20\cf0 detect magic }{\fs20\cf0 
spell. If the items or creatures b
earing the auras are in line of sight, you can make Spellcraft skill checks to determine the school of magic involved in each. (Make one check per aura; DC 15 + spell level, or 15 + one-half caster level for a nonspell effect.)
\par If you concentrate on a spec
ific creature within 120 feet of you as a standard action, you can determine whether it has any spellcasting or spell-like abilities, whether these are arcane or divine (spell-like abilities register as arcane), and the strength of the most powerful spell
 or spell-like ability the creature currently has available for use.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane sight }{\fs20\cf0 can be made permanent with a }{\i\fs20\cf0 permanency }{\fs20\cf0 spell.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Arcane Sight, Greater
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Divination
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 7
\par This spell functions like }{\i\fs20\cf0 arcane sight, }{\fs20\cf0 except that you automatically know which spells or magical effects are active upon any individual or object you see.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Greater arcane sight }{\fs20\cf0 doesn\rquote t let you identify magic items.
\par Unlike }{\i\fs20\cf0 arcane sight}{\fs20\cf0 , this spell cannot be made permanent with a }{\i\fs20\cf0 permanency }{\fs20\cf0 spell.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Astral Projection
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Necromancy
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 9, Sor/Wiz 9, Travel 9
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  30 minutes
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Targets:}{\fs20\cf0  You plus one additional willing creature touched per two caster levels
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  See text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par By freeing your spirit from your physical body, this spell allows you to project an astral body onto another plane altogether.
\par You can bring the astral forms of other willing creatures with you, provided that these subjects are linked in a circle with you 
at the time of the casting. These fellow travelers are dependent upon you and must accompany you at all times. If something happens to you during the journey, your companions are stranded wherever you left them.
\par You project your astral self onto the Astral
 Plane, leaving your physical body behind on the Material Plane in a state of suspended animation. The spell projects an astral copy of you and all you wear or carry onto the Astral Plane. Since the Astral Plane touches upon other planes, you can travel a
strally to any of these other planes as you will. To enter one, you leave the Astral Plane, forming a new physical body (and equipment) on the plane of existence you have chosen to enter.
\par While you are on the Astral Plane, your astral body is connected at a
ll times to your physical body by a silvery cord. If the cord is broken, you are killed, astrally and physically. Luckily, very few things can destroy a silver cord. When a second body is formed on a different plane, the incorporeal silvery cord remains i
n
visibly attached to the new body. If the second body or the astral form is slain, the cord simply returns to your body where it rests on the Material Plane, thereby reviving it from its state of suspended animation. Although astral projections are able to
 function on the Astral Plane, their actions affect only creatures existing on the Astral Plane; a physical body must be materialized on other planes.
\par You and your companions may travel through the Astral Plane indefinitely. Your bodies simply wait behind i
n a state of suspended animation until you choose to return your spirits to them. The spell lasts until you desire to end it, or until it is terminated by some outside means, such as }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel magic }{\fs20\cf0 
cast upon either the physical body or the astral form, the breaking of the silver cord, or the destruction of your body back on the Material Plane (which kills you).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A jacinth worth at least 1,000 gp, plus a silver bar worth 5 gp for each person to be affected.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Atonement
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjuration
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 5, Drd 5
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M, F, DF, XP
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 hour
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Living creature touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par This spell removes the burden of evil acts or misdeeds from the subject. The cre
ature seeking atonement must be truly repentant and desirous of setting right its misdeeds. If the atoning creature committed the evil act unwittingly or under some form of compulsion, }{\i\fs20\cf0 atonement }{\fs20\cf0 
operates normally at no cost to you. However, in the case of a creature atoning for deliberate misdeeds and acts of a knowing and willful nature, you must intercede with your deity (requiring you to expend 500 XP) in order to expunge the subject\rquote 
s burden. Many casters first assign a subject of this sort a quest (see }{\i\fs20\cf0 geas/quest}{\fs20\cf0 ) or similar penance to determine whether the creature is truly contrite before casting the }{\i\fs20\cf0 atonement }{\fs20\cf0 
spell on its behalf.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Atonement }{\fs20\cf0 may be cast for one of several purposes, depending on the version selected.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Reverse Magical Alignment Change: }{\fs20\cf0 If a creature has had its alignment magically changed, }{\i\fs20\cf0 atonement }{\fs20\cf0 returns its alignment to its original status at no cost in experience points.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Restore Class: }{\fs20\cf0 A paladin who has lost her class features due to committing an evil act may have her paladinhood restored to her by this spell.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Restore Cleric or Druid Spell Powers: }{\fs20\cf0 A cleric or druid who has lost the ability to cast spells by incurring the anger of his or her deity may regain that ability by seeking }{\i\fs20\cf0 atonement }{\fs20\cf0 
from another cleric of the same deity or another druid. If the transgression was intentional, the casting cleric loses 500 XP for his intercession. If the transgression was unintentional, he does not lose XP.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Redemption or Temptation: }{\fs20\cf0 You may cast this spell upon a creature of an opposing alignment 
in order to offer it a chance to change its alignment to match yours. The prospective subject must be present for the entire casting process. Upon completion of the spell, the subject freely chooses whether it retains its original alignment or acquiesces 
t
o your offer and changes to your alignment. No duress, compulsion, or magical influence can force the subject to take advantage of the opportunity offered if it is unwilling to abandon its old alignment. This use of the spell does not work on outsiders or
 any creature incapable of changing its alignment naturally.
\par Though the spell description refers to evil acts, }{\i\fs20\cf0 atonement }{\fs20\cf0 can also be used on any creature that has performed acts against its alignment, whether those acts are evil, good, chaotic, or lawful.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Note: }{\fs20\cf0 Normally, changing alignment is up to the player. This use of }{\i\fs20\cf0 atonement }{\fs20\cf0 simply offers a believable way for a character to change his or her alignment drastically, suddenly, and definitively.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 Burning incense.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Focus: }{\fs20\cf0 In addition to your holy symbol or normal divine focus, you need a set of prayer beads (or other prayer device, such as a prayer wheel or prayer book) worth at least 500 gp.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 XP Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 When cast for the benefit of a creature whose guilt was the result of deliberate acts, the cost to you is 500 XP per casting (see above).
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Augury
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Divination
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 2
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M, F
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Personal
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  You
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par An }{\i\fs20\cf0 augury }{\fs20\cf0 can tell you whether a particular action will bring good or bad results for you in the immediate future.
\par The base chance for receiving a meaningful reply is 70% + 1% per caster level, to a maximum of 90%; this roll is made secretly. A question may be so straightforward that a successful result is automatic, or so vague a
s to have no chance of success. If the }{\i\fs20\cf0 augury }{\fs20\cf0 succeeds, you get one of four results:
\par }{\cf0 \bullet  }{\fs20\cf0 Weal (if the action will probably bring good results).
\par }{\cf0 \bullet  }{\fs20\cf0 Woe (for bad results).
\par }{\cf0 \bullet  }{\fs20\cf0 Weal and woe (for both).
\par }{\cf0 \bullet  }{\fs20\cf0 Nothing (for actions that don\rquote t have especially good or bad results).
\par If the spell fails, you get the \'93nothing\'94 result. A cleric who gets the \'93nothing\'94 result has no way to tell whether it was the consequence of a failed or successful }{\i\fs20\cf0 augury.
\par }{\fs20\cf0 The }{\i\fs20\cf0 augury }{\fs20\cf0 can see into the future only about half an hour, so anything t
hat might happen after that does not affect the result. Thus, the result might not take into account the long-term consequences of a contemplated action. All }{\i\fs20\cf0 auguries }{\fs20\cf0 
cast by the same person about the same topic use the same dice result as the first casting.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 Incense worth at least 25 gp.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Focus: }{\fs20\cf0 A set of marked sticks, bones, or similar tokens of at least 25 gp value.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Awaken
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Drd 5
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, DF, XP
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  24 hours
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Animal or tree touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par You awaken a tree or animal to humanlike sentience. To succeed, you must make a Will save (DC 10 + the animal\rquote s current HD, or the HD the tree will have once awakened).
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 awakened }{\fs20\cf0 animal or tree is friendly toward you. You have no special empathy or connection with a creature you awaken, although it serves you in specific tasks or endeavors if you communicate your desires to it.
\par An }{\i\fs20\cf0 awakened }{\fs20\cf0 tree has characteristics as if it were an animated object, except that it gains the plant type and its Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores are each 3d6. An }{\i\fs20\cf0 awakened }{\fs20\cf0 
plant gains the ability to move its limbs, roots, vines, creepers, and so forth, and it has senses similar to a human\rquote s.
\par An }{\i\fs20\cf0 awakened }{\fs20\cf0 animal gets 3d6 Intelligence, +1d3 Charisma, and +2 HD. Its type becomes magical beast (augmented animal). An awakened animal can\rquote t serve as an animal companion, familiar, or special mount.
\par An }{\i\fs20\cf0 awakened }{\fs20\cf0 tree or animal can speak one language that you know, plus one additional language that you know per point of Intelligence bonus (if any).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 XP Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 250 XP.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Baleful Polymorph
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Drd 5, Sor/Wiz 5
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One creature
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Permanent
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Fortitude negates, Will partial; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par As }{\i\fs20\cf0 polymorph, }{\fs20\cf0 except that you change the subject into a Small or smaller animal of no more than 1 HD. If the new form would prove fatal to the creature the subject gets a +4 bonus on the save.
\par If the spell succeeds, the subject must also make a Will save. If this second save fails, the creature loses its extraordinary, supernatural, and spell-like abilities, loses its abi
lity to cast spells (if it had the ability), and gains the alignment, special abilities, and Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores of its new form in place of its own. It still retains its class and level (or HD), as well as all benefits deriving ther
efrom (such as base attack bonus, base save bonuses, and hit points). It retains any class features (other than spellcasting) that aren\rquote t extraordinary, supernatural, or spell-like abilities.
\par Incorporeal or gaseous creatures are immune to being }{\i\fs20\cf0 polymorphed}{\fs20\cf0 , and a creature with the shapechanger subtype can revert to its natural form as a standard action.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Bane
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Enchantment (Compulsion) [Fear, Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 1
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  50 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  All enemies within 50 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 min./level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0 Will negates
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Bane }{\fs20\cf0 fills your enemies with fear and doubt. Each affected creature takes a \endash 1 penalty on attack rolls and a \endash 1 penalty on saving throws against fear effects.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Bane }{\fs20\cf0 counters and dispels }{\i\fs20\cf0 bless}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Banishment
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjuration
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 6, Sor/Wiz 7
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, F
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Targets:}{\fs20\cf0  One or more extraplanar creatures, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par A }{\i\fs20\cf0 banishment }{\fs20\cf0 spell is a more powerful version of the }{\i\fs20\cf0 dismissal }{\fs20\cf0 spell. It enables you to force extrapl
anar creatures out of your home plane. As many as 2 Hit Dice of creatures per caster level can be banished.
\par You can improve the spell\rquote s chance of success by presenting at least one object or substance that the target hates, fears, or otherwise opposes. For
 each such object or substance, you gain a +1 bonus on your caster level check to overcome the target\rquote s spell resistance (if any), the saving throw DC increases by 2. 
\par Certain rare items might work twice as well as a normal item for the purpose of the bonuses (each providing a +2 bonus on the caster level check against spell resistance and increasing the save DC by 4).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Focus: }{\fs20\cf0 Any item that is distasteful to the subject (optional, see above).
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Barkskin
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Drd 2, Rgr 2, Plant 2
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Living creature touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  10 min./level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (harmless)
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Barkskin }{\fs20\cf0 toughens a creature\rquote s skin. The effect grants a +2 enhancement bonus to the creature\rquote 
s existing natural armor bonus. This enhancement bonus increases by 1 for every three caster levels above 3rd, to a maximum of +5 at caster level 12th.
\par The enhancement bonus provided by }{\i\fs20\cf0 barkskin }{\fs20\cf0 stacks with the target\rquote s natural armor bonus, but not with other enhancement bonuses to natural armor. A creature without natural armor has an effective natural armor bonus of +0.

\par 
\par }{\cf0 Bear\rquote s Endurance
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 2, Drd 2, Rgr 2, Sor/Wiz 2
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Creature touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 min./level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (harmless)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par The affected creature gains greater vitality and stamina. The spell grants the subject a +4 enhancement bonus to Constitution, which adds the usual benefits to hit points, Fortitude saves, Constitution checks, and so forth.
\par Hit points gained by a temporary increase in Constitution score are not temporary hit points. They go away when the subject\rquote s Constitution drops back to normal. They are not lost first as temporary hit points are.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Bear\rquote s Endurance, Mass
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 6, Drd 6, Sor/Wiz 6
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Targets:}{\fs20\cf0  One creature/level, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Mass bear \rquote s endurance }{\fs20\cf0 works like }{\i\fs20\cf0 bear \rquote s endurance}{\fs20\cf0 , except that it affects multiple creatures.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Bestow Curse
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Necromancy
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 3, Sor/Wiz 4
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Creature touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Permanent
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par You place a curse on the subject. Choose one of the following three effects.
\par }{\cf0 \bullet  }{\fs20\cf0 \endash 6 decrease to an ability score (minimum 1).
\par }{\cf0 \bullet  }{\fs20\cf0 \endash 4 penalty on attack rolls, saves, ability checks, and skill checks.
\par }{\cf0 \bullet  }{\fs20\cf0 Each turn, the target has a 50% chance to act normally; otherwise, it takes no action.
\par You may also invent your own curse, but it should be no more powerful than those described above.
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 curse }{\fs20\cf0 bestowed by this spell cannot be dispelled, but it can be removed with a }{\i\fs20\cf0 break enchantment}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 limited wish}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 miracle}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 remove curse
}{\fs20\cf0 , or }{\i\fs20\cf0 wish }{\fs20\cf0 spell.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Bestow curse }{\fs20\cf0 counters }{\i\fs20\cf0 remove curse}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Binding
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 8
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  One minute
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One living creature
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  See text (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par A }{\i\fs20\cf0 binding }{\fs20\cf0 spell creates a magical restraint to hold a creature. The target gets an initial saving throw only if its Hit Dice equal at least one-half your caster level.
\par You may have as many as six assistants help you with the spell. For each assistant who casts }{\i\fs20\cf0 suggestion}{\fs20\cf0 , your caster level for this casting of }{\i\fs20\cf0 binding }{\fs20\cf0 increases by 1. For each assistant who casts }{
\i\fs20\cf0 dominate animal, dominate person, }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 dominate monster, }{\fs20\cf0 your caster level for this casting of }{\i\fs20\cf0 binding }{\fs20\cf0 increases by a number equal to one-third of that assistant\rquote 
s level, provided that the spell\rquote s target is appropriate for a }{\i\fs20\cf0 binding }{\fs20\cf0 spell. Since the assistants\rquote  spells are cast simply to improve your caster level for the purpose of the }{\i\fs20\cf0 binding }{\fs20\cf0 
spell, saving throws and spell resistance against the assistants\rquote  spells are irrelevant. Your caster level determines whether the target gets an initial Will saving throw and how long the }{\i\fs20\cf0 binding }{\fs20\cf0 lasts. All }{\i\fs20\cf0 
binding }{\fs20\cf0 spells are dismissible.
\par Regardless of the version of }{\i\fs20\cf0 binding }{\fs20\cf0 you cast, you can specify triggering conditions tha
t end the spell and release the creature whenever they occur. These triggers can be as simple or elaborate as you desire, but the condition must be reasonable and have a likelihood of coming to pass. The conditions can be based on a creature\rquote 
s name, identity, or alignment but otherwise must be based on observable actions or qualities. Intangibles such as level, class, Hit Dice, or hit points don\rquote 
t qualify. Once the spell is cast, its triggering conditions cannot be changed. Setting a release condition increases the save DC (assuming a saving throw is allowed) by 2.
\par If you are casting any of the first three versions of }{\i\fs20\cf0 binding }{\fs20\cf0 (those with limited durations), you may cast additional }{\i\fs20\cf0 binding }{\fs20\cf0 spells to prolong the effect, since the durations overlap. If you do s
o, the target gets a saving throw at the end of the first spell\rquote s duration, even if your caster level was high enough to disallow an initial saving throw. If the creature succeeds on this save, all the }{\i\fs20\cf0 binding }{\fs20\cf0 
spells it has received are broken.
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 binding }{\fs20\cf0 spell has six versions. Choose one of the following versions when you cast the spell.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Chaining: }{\fs20\cf0 The subject is confined by restraints that generate an }{\i\fs20\cf0 antipathy }{\fs20\cf0 spell affecting all creatures who approach the subject, except you. The duration is one year p
er caster level. The subject of this form of }{\i\fs20\cf0 binding }{\fs20\cf0 is confined to the spot it occupied when it received the spell.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Slumber: }{\fs20\cf0 This version causes the subject to become comatose for as long as one year per caster level. The subject does not need to eat or drink while }{\i\fs20\cf0 slumbering}{\fs20\cf0 , nor does it age. This form of }{
\i\fs20\cf0 binding }{\fs20\cf0 is more difficult to cast than }{\i\fs20\cf0 chaining}{\fs20\cf0 , making it slightly easier to resist. Reduce the spell\rquote s save DC by 1.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Bound Slumber: }{\fs20\cf0 This combination of }{\i\fs20\cf0 chaining }{\fs20\cf0 and }{\i\fs20\cf0 slumber }{\fs20\cf0 lasts for as long as one month per caster level. Reduce the save DC by 2.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Hedged Prison: }{\fs20\cf0 The subject is transported to or otherwise brought within a confined area from which it cannot wander by any means. The effect is permanent. Reduce the save DC by 3.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Metamorphosis: }{\fs20\cf0 
The subject assumes gaseous form, except for its head or face. It is held harmless in a jar or other container, which may be transparent if you so choose. The creature remains aware of its surroundings and can speak, but it cannot leave the c
ontainer, attack, or use any of its powers or abilities. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 binding }{\fs20\cf0 is permanent. The subject does not need to breathe, eat, or drink while }{\i\fs20\cf0 metamorphosed}{\fs20\cf0 , nor does it age. Reduce the save DC by 4.

\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Minimus Containment: }{\fs20\cf0 The subject is shrunk to a height of 1 inch or even less and held within some gem, jar, or similar object. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 binding }{\fs20\cf0 
is permanent. The subject does not need to breathe, eat, or drink while }{\i\fs20\cf0 contained}{\fs20\cf0 , nor does it age. Reduce the save DC by 4.
\par You can\rquote t dispel a }{\i\fs20\cf0 binding }{\fs20\cf0 spell with }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel magic }{\fs20\cf0 or a similar effect, though an }{\i\fs20\cf0 antimagic field }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 Mage\rquote s disjunction }{\fs20\cf0 
affects it normally. A bound extraplanar creature cannot be sent back to its home plane due to }{\i\fs20\cf0 dismissal, banishment, }{\fs20\cf0 or a similar effect.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 The components for a }{\i\fs20\cf0 binding }{\fs20\cf0 spell
 vary according to the version of the spell, but they always include a continuous chanting utterance read from the scroll or spellbook page containing the spell, somatic gestures, and materials appropriate to the form of }{\i\fs20\cf0 binding }{\fs20\cf0 
used. These components can include such items as miniature chains of special metals, soporific herbs of the rarest sort (for }{\i\fs20\cf0 slumber }{\fs20\cf0 bindings), a bell jar of the finest crystal, and the like.
\par In addition to the specially made props suited to the specific type of }{\i\fs20\cf0 binding }{\fs20\cf0 (cost 500 gp
), the spell requires opals worth at least 500 gp for each HD of the target and a vellum depiction or carved statuette of the subject to be captured.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Black Tentacles
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Creation)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 4
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  20-ft.-radius spread
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round/level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par This spell conjures a field of rubbery black tentacles, each 10 feet long. These waving members seem to spring forth from the earth, floor, or whatever surface is underfoot\emdash 
including water. They grasp and entwine around creatures that enter the area, holding them fast and crushing them with great strength.
\par Every creature within the area of the spell must make a grapple che
ck, opposed by the grapple check of the tentacles. Treat the tentacles attacking a particular target as a Large creature with a base attack bonus equal to your caster level and a Strength score of 19. Thus, its grapple check modifier is equal to your cast
er level +8. The tentacles are immune to all types of damage.
\par Once the tentacles grapple an opponent, they may make a grapple check each round on your turn to deal 1d6+4 points of bludgeoning damage. The tentacles continue to crush the opponent until the spell ends or the opponent escapes.
\par Any creature that enters the area of the spell is immediately attacked by the tentacles. Even creatures who aren\rquote t grappling with the tentacles may move through the area at only half normal speed.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A piece of tentacle from a giant octopus or a giant squid.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Blade Barrier
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Force]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 6, Good 6, War 6
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect: }{\fs20\cf0 Wall of whirling blades up to 20 ft. long/ level, or a ringed wall of whirling blades with a radius of up to 5 ft. per two levels; either form 20 ft. high
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 min./level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Reflex half or Reflex negates; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par An immobile, vertical curtain of whirling blades shaped of pure force springs into existence. Any creature passing through the wall takes 1d6 points of damage per caster level (maximum 15d6), with a Reflex save for half damage.
\par If you evoke the barrier so that it appears where creatures are, e
ach creature takes damage as if passing through the wall. Each such creature can avoid the wall (ending up on the side of its choice) and thus take no damage by making a successful Reflex save.
\par A }{\i\fs20\cf0 blade barrier }{\fs20\cf0 provides cover (+4 bonus to AC, +2 bonus on Reflex saves) against attacks made through it.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Blasphemy
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Evil, Sonic]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 7, Evil 7
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  40 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  Nonevil creatures in a 40-ft.-radius spread centered on you
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None or Will negates; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par Any nonevil creature within the area of a }{\i\fs20\cf0 blasphemy }{\fs20\cf0 spell suffers the following ill effects.
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1863\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4922
\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0 \b\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 HD}{\cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 
\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 Effect}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1863\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4922\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1863\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4922\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Equal to caster level}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 Dazed}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1863\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx4922\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Up to caster level \endash 1}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 Weakened, dazed}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1863\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4922\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Up to caster level \endash 5}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 Paralyzed, weakened, dazed}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1863\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4922\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1863\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4922\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20\cf0 Up to caster level \endash 10}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 Killed, paralyzed, weakened, dazed}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1863\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4922\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\cf0 The effects are cumulative and concurrent.
\par No saving throw is allowed against these effects.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Dazed: }{\fs20\cf0 The creature can take no actions for 1 round, though it defends itself normally.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weakened: }{\fs20\cf0 The creature\rquote s Strength score decreases by 2d6 points for 2d4 rounds.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Paralyzed: }{\fs20\cf0 The creature is paralyzed and helpless for 1d10 minutes.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Killed: }{\fs20\cf0 Living creatures die. Undead creatures are destroyed.
\par Furthermore, if you are on your home plane when you cast this spell, nonevil extraplanar creatures within the area are instantly banished back to their home planes. Creatures so banished cannot return for at least 24 hour
s. This effect takes place regardless of whether the creatures hear the }{\i\fs20\cf0 blasphemy. }{\fs20\cf0 The banishment effect allows a Will save (at a \endash 4 penalty) to negate.
\par Creatures whose Hit Dice exceed your caster level are unaffected by }{\i\fs20\cf0 blasphemy.
\par }{\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Bless
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 1, Pal 1
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  50 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  The caster and all allies within a 50-ft. burst, centered on the caster
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 min./level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (harmless)
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Bless }{\fs20\cf0 fills your allies with courage. Each ally gains a +1 morale bonus on attack rolls and on saving throws against fear effects.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Bless }{\fs20\cf0 counters and dispels }{\i\fs20\cf0 bane}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Bless Water
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation [Good]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 1, Pal 1
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Flask of water touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (object)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (object)
\par This transmutation imbues a flask (1 pint) of water with positive energy, turning it into holy water.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 5 pounds of powdered silver (worth 25 gp).
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Bless Weapon
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Pal 1
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 Weapon touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 min./level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par This transmutation makes a weapon strike true against evil foes. The weapon is treated as having a +1 enhancement bonus for the purpose of bypassing the damage reduction of evil creatures or striking evil incorporeal creatures (though the spell doesn
\rquote t grant an actual enhancement bonus). The weapon also becomes good, which means it can bypass the damage reduction of certain creatures. (This effect overrides and suppresses any other alignment the weapon might have.) Individual arrows or bolts 
can be transmuted, but affected projectile weapons (such as bows) don\rquote t confer the benefit to the projectiles they shoot.
\par In addition, all critical hit rolls against evil foes are automatically successful, so every threat is a critical hit. This last effect does not apply to any weapon that already has a magical effect related to critical hits, such as a keen weapon or a vor
pal sword.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Blight
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Necromancy
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Drd 4, Sor/Wiz 5
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Fortitude half; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par This spell withers a single plant of any size. An affected plant creature takes 1d6 points of damage per level (maximum 15d6) and may attempt a Fortitude saving throw for half damage. A plant that isn\rquote t a creature doesn\rquote 
t receive a save and immediately withers and dies.
\par This spell has no effect on the soil or surrounding plant life.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Blindness/Deafness
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Necromancy
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 2, Clr 3, Sor/Wiz 2
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One living creature
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Permanent (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Fortitude negates
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par You call upon the powers of unlife to render the subject blinded or deafened, as you choose.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Blink
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 3
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Personal
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  You
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round/level (D)
\par You \'93blink\'94 back and forth between the Material Plane and the Ethereal Plane. You look as though you\rquote re winking in and out of reality very quickly and at random.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Blinking }{\fs20\cf0 has several effects, as follows.
\par Physical attacks against you have a 50% miss chance, and the Blind-Fight feat doesn\rquote t help opponents, since you\rquote 
re ethereal and not merely invisible. If the attack is capable of striking ethereal creatures, the miss chance is only 20% (for concealment).
\par If the attacker can see invisible c
reatures, the miss chance is also only 20%. (For an attacker who can both see and strike ethereal creatures, there is no miss chance.) Likewise, your own attacks have a 20% miss chance, since you sometimes go ethereal just as you are about to strike.

\par Any individually targeted spell has a 50% chance to fail against you while you\rquote re }{\i\fs20\cf0 blinking }{\fs20\cf0 
unless your attacker can target invisible, ethereal creatures. Your own spells have a 20% chance to activate just as you go ethereal, in which case they typically do not affect the Material Plane.
\par While }{\i\fs20\cf0 blinking}{\fs20\cf0 , you take only half damage from area attacks (but full damage from those that extend onto the Ethereal Plane). You strike as an invisible creature (with a +2 bonus on attack rolls), denying your target any Dexterit
y bonus to AC.
\par You take only half damage from falling, since you fall only while you are material.
\par While }{\i\fs20\cf0 blinking}{\fs20\cf0 , you can step through (but not see through) solid objects. For each 5 feet of solid material you walk through, there is a 50% chance 
that you become material. If this occurs, you are shunted off to the nearest open space and take 1d6 points of damage per 5 feet so traveled. You can move at only three-quarters speed (because movement on the Ethereal Plane is at half speed, and you spend
 about half your time there and half your time material.)
\par Since you spend about half your time on the Ethereal Plane, you can see and even attack ethereal creatures. You interact with ethereal creatures roughly the same way you interact with material ones.
\par An ethereal creature is invisible, incorporeal, and capable of moving in any direction, even up or down. As an incorporeal creature, you can move through solid objects, including living creatures.
\par An ethereal creature can see and hear the Material Plane, but everything looks gray and insubstantial. Sight and hearing on the Material Plane are limited to 60 feet.
\par Force effects and abjurations affect you normally. Their effects extend onto the Ethereal Plane from the Material Plane, but not vice versa. An ethereal creature can\rquote 
t attack material creatures, and spells you cast while ethereal affect only other ethereal things. Certain material creatures or objects have attacks or effects that work on the Ethereal Plane. Treat other ethereal creatures and objects as material.

\par 
\par }{\cf0 Blur
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Illusion (Glamer)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 2,Sor/Wiz 2
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Creature touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 min./level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (harmless)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (harmless)
\par The subject\rquote s outline appears blurred, shifting and wavering. This distortion grants the subject concealment (20% miss chance).
\par A }{\i\fs20\cf0 see invisibility }{\fs20\cf0 spell does not counteract the }{\i\fs20\cf0 blur }{\fs20\cf0 effect, but a }{\i\fs20\cf0 true seeing }{\fs20\cf0 spell does.
\par Opponents that cannot see the subject ignore the spell\rquote s effect (though fighting an unseen opponent carries penalties of its own).
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Break Enchantment
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjuration
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 4, Clr 5, Luck 5, Pal 4, Sor/Wiz 5
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Targets:}{\fs20\cf0  Up to one creature per level, all within 30 ft. of each other
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  See text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par This spell frees victims from enchantments, transmutations, and curses. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Break enchantment }{\fs20\cf0 
can reverse even an instantaneous effect. For each such effect, you make a caster level check (1d20 + caster level, maximum +15) against a DC of 11 + caster level of the effect. Success means that the creature is free of the spell, curse, or effect. For
 a cursed magic item, the DC is 25.
\par If the spell is one that cannot be dispelled by }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel magic}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 break enchantment }{\fs20\cf0 works only if that spell is 5th level or lower. 
\par If the effect comes from some permanent magic item }{\i\fs20\cf0 break enchantment }{\fs20\cf0 does not remove the curse from the item, but it does frees the victim from the item\rquote s effects. 
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Bull\rquote s Strength
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 2, Drd 2, Pal 2, Sor/Wiz 2, Strength 2
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M/DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Creature touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 min./level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (harmless)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (harmless)
\par The subject becomes stronger. The spell grants a +4 enhancement bonus to Strength, adding the usual benefits to melee attack rolls, melee damage rolls, and other uses of the Strength modifier.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A few hairs, or a pinch of dung, from a bull.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Bull\rquote s Strength, Mass
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 6, Drd 6, Sor/Wiz 6
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Targets:}{\fs20\cf0  One creature/level, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart
\par This spell functions like }{\i\fs20\cf0 bull\rquote s strength}{\fs20\cf0 , except that it affects multiple creatures.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Burning Hands
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Fire]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Fire 1, Sor/Wiz 1
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  15 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  Cone-shaped burst
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Reflex half
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par A cone of searing flame shoots from your fingertips. Any creature in the area of the flames takes 1d4 points of fire damage per
 caster level (maximum 5d4). Flammable materials burn if the flames touch them. A character can extinguish burning items as a full-round action.}{
\par }}