{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New{\*\falt Courier};}{\f32\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f33\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f35\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f36\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f37\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f38\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f39\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f48\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f49\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr{\*\falt Courier};}{\f51\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek{\*\falt Courier};}{\f52\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f53\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier};}{\f54\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic){\*\falt Courier};}{\f55\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic{\*\falt Courier};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\qr \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{
\s4\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 4;}{\s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\i\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 5;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext15 Body Text;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Body Text 2;}{\s17\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar
\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 Preformatted;}}{\info
{\title his chapter begins with the spell lists of the spellcasting}{\author AKSmith}{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2003\mo7\dy1\hr14\min52}{\revtim\yr2003\mo10\dy22\hr13\min22}{\version5}{\edmins5}{\nofpages21}{\nofwords10652}{\nofchars60718}
{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws74565}{\vern8203}}\margl1080\margr1080\margt1080\margb1080 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180
\dghorigin1080\dgvorigin1080\dghshow1\dgvshow1\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{\f0\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs36\cf0 SPELLS (T-Z)
\par }{\cf0 
\par Telekinesis
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 5
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target or Targets:}{\fs20\cf0  See text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Concentration (up to 1 round/ level) or instantaneous; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (object) or None; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (object); see text
\par You move objects or creatures by concentrating on them. Depending on the version selected, the spell can provide a gentle, sustained force, perform a variety of combat maneuvers, or exert a single short, violent thrust.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Sustained Force: }{\fs20\cf0 
A sustained force moves an object weighing no more than 25 pounds per caster level (maximum 375 pounds at 15th level) up to 20 feet per round. A creature can negate the effect on an object it possesses with a successful Will save or with spell resistance.

\par This version of the spell can last 1 round per caster level, but it ends if you cease concentration. The weight can be moved vertically, horizontally, or in both directions. An object cannot be moved beyond your range
. The spell ends if the object is forced beyond the range. If you cease concentration for any reason, the object falls or stops.
\par An object can be telekinetically manipulated as if with one hand. For example, a lever or rope can be pulled, a key can be turn
ed, an object rotated, and so on, if the force required is within the weight limitation. You might even be able to untie simple knots, though delicate activities such as these require Intelligence checks.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Combat Maneuver: }{\fs20\cf0 Alternatively, once per round, you can use }{\i\fs20\cf0 telekinesis }{\fs20\cf0 to perform a bull rush, disarm, grapple (including pin), or trip. Resolve these attempts as normal, except that they don\rquote 
t provoke attacks of opportunity, you use your caster level in place of your base attack bonus (for disarm and gra
pple), you use your Intelligence modifier (if a wizard) or Charisma modifier (if a sorcerer) in place of your Strength or Dexterity modifier, and a failed attempt doesn\rquote 
t allow a reactive attempt by the target (such as for disarm or trip). No save is allowed against these attempts, but spell resistance applies normally. This version of the spell can last 1 round per caster level, but it ends if you cease concentration.

\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Violent Thrust: }{\fs20\cf0 Alternatively, the spell energy can be spent in a single round. You can h
url one object or creature per caster level (maximum 15) that are within range and all within 10 feet of each other toward any target within 10 feet per level of all the objects. You can hurl up to a total weight of 25 pounds per caster level (maximum 375
 pounds at 15th level).
\par You must succeed on attack rolls (one per creature or object thrown) to hit the target with the items, using your base attack bonus + your Intelligence modifier (if a wizard) or Charisma modifier (if a sorcerer). Weapons cause standa
rd damage (with no Strength bonus; note that arrows or bolts deal damage as daggers of their size when used in this manner). Other objects cause damage ranging from 1 point per 25 pounds (for less dangerous objects) to 1d6 points of damage per 25 pounds (
for hard, dense objects).
\par Creatures who fall within the weight capacity of the spell can be hurled, but they are allowed Will saves (and spell resistance) to negate the effect, as are those whose held possessions are targeted by the spell. If a telekinesed 
creature is hurled against a solid surface, it takes damage as if it had fallen 10 feet (1d6 points).
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Telekinetic Sphere
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Force]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 8
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  1-ft.-diameter/level sphere, centered around creatures or objects
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 min./level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Reflex negates (object)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (object)
\par This spell functions like }{\i\fs20\cf0 resilient sphere, }{\fs20\cf0 with the addition that the creatures or objects inside the globe are nearly weightless. Anything contained within an }{\i\fs20\cf0 telekinetic sphere }{\fs20\cf0 
weighs only one-sixteenth of its normal weight. You can telekinetically lift anything in the sphere that normally weighs 5,000 pounds or less. The telekinetic control ex
tends from you out to medium range (100 feet + 10 feet per caster level) after the sphere has succeeded in encapsulating its contents.
\par You can move objects or creatures in the sphere that weigh a total of 5,000 pounds or less by concentrating on the sphere
. You can begin moving a sphere in the round after casting the spell. If you concentrate on doing so (a standard action), you can move the sphere as much as 30 feet in a round. If you cease concentrating, the sphere does not move in that round (if on a le
vel surface) or descends at its falling rate (if aloft) until it reaches a level surface, or the spell\rquote 
s duration expires, or you begin concentrating again. If you cease concentrating (voluntarily or due to failing a Concentration check), you can resume concentrating on your next turn or any later turn during the spell\rquote s duration.
\par The sphere falls at a rate of only 60 feet per round, which is not fast enough to cause damage to the contents of the sphere.
\par You can move the sphere telekinetically even if you are in it.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A hemispherical piece of clear crystal, a matching hemispherical piece of gum arabic, and a pair of small bar magnets.
\par }{\cf0 
\par Telepathic Bond
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Divination
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 5
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Targets:}{\fs20\cf0  You plus one willing creature per three levels, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  10 min./level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par You forge a telepathic bond among yourself and a number o
f willing creatures, each of which must have an Intelligence score of 3 or higher. Each creature included in the link is linked to all the others. The creatures can communicate telepathically through the bond regardless of language. No special power or in
fluence is established as a result of the bond. Once the bond is formed, it works over any distance (although not from one plane to another).
\par If desired, you may leave yourself out of the telepathic bond forged. This decision must be made at the time of casting.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Telepathic bond }{\fs20\cf0 can be made permanent with a }{\i\fs20\cf0 permanency }{\fs20\cf0 spell, though it only bonds two creatures per casting of }{\i\fs20\cf0 permanency}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 Pieces of eggshell from two different kinds of creatures.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Teleport
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Teleportation)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 5, Travel 5
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Personal and touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  You and touched objects or other touched willing creatures
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None and Will negates (object)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No and Yes (object)
\par This spell instantly transports you to a designated destination, which may be as distant as 100 miles per caster level. Interplanar travel is not possible. You can bring along objects as long as their weight doesn\rquote t exceed your maximum
 load. You may also bring one additional willing Medium or smaller creature (carrying gear or objects up to its maximum load) or its equivalent (see below) per three caster levels. A Large creature counts as two Medium creatures, a Huge creature counts as
 
two Large creatures, and so forth. All creatures to be transported must be in contact with one another, and at least one of those creatures must be in contact with you. As with all spells where the range is personal and the target is you, you need not mak
e a saving throw, nor is spell resistance applicable to you. Only objects held or in use (attended) by another person receive saving throws and spell resistance.
\par You must have some clear idea of the location and layout of the destination. The clearer your mental image, the more likely the teleportation works. Areas of strong physical or magical energy may make teleportation more hazardous or even impossible.

\par To see how well the teleportation works, roll d% and consult the Teleport table. Refer to the following information for definitions of the terms on the table.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Familiarity: }{\fs20\cf0 \'93Very familiar\'94 is a place where you have been very often and where you feel at home. \'93Studied carefully\'94 is a place you know well, either because you can currently see it, you\rquote ve been 
there often, or you have used other means (such as }{\i\fs20\cf0 scrying}{\fs20\cf0 ) to study the place for at least one hour. \'93Seen casually\'94 is a place that you have seen more than once but with which you are not very familiar. \'93Viewed once
\'94 is a place that you have seen once, possibly using magic. 
\par \'93False destination\'94 is a place that does not truly exist or if you are teleporting to an otherwise familiar location that no longer exists as such or has been so completely altered as to no longer be familiar to you. When traveling to
 a false destination, roll 1d20+80 to obtain results on the table, rather than rolling d%, since there is no real destination for you to hope to arrive at or even be off target from.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 On Target: }{\fs20\cf0 You appear where you want to be.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Off Target: }{\fs20\cf0 You appear safely a random distance away from the destination in a random direction. Distance off target is 1d10x1d10% of the distance that was to be traveled. The direction off target is determined randomly
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Similar Area: }{\fs20\cf0 You wind up in an area that\rquote s visually or thematically similar to the target area.
\par Generally, you appear in the closest similar place within range. If no such area exists within the spell\rquote s range, the spell simply fails instead.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Mishap: }{\fs20\cf0 You and anyone else teleporting with you have gotten \'93scrambled.\'94 You each take 1d10 points of damage, and you reroll on the chart to see where you wind up. For these rerolls, roll 1d20+80. Each time \'93Mishap\'94
 comes up, the characters take more damage and must reroll.
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2354\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3465
\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4598\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5920\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6781\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {
\b\fs20\cf0 Familiarity}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 On Target}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 Off Target}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 Similar Area}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 Mishap}{
\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2354\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3465\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4598\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5920\clvertalt
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6781\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2354\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3465\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4598\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5920\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6781\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Very familiar}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 01\endash 97}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 98\endash 99}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 100}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2354\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3465\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4598\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5920\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6781\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Studied carefully}{
\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 01\endash 94}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 95\endash 97}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 98\endash 99}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 100}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2354\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3465\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4598\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5920\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6781\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Seen casually}{\fs18\cf0 
\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 01\endash 88}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 89\endash 94}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 95\endash 98}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 99\endash 100}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2354\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3465\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4598\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5920\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6781\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Viewed once}{\fs18\cf0 
\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 01\endash 76}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 77\endash 88}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 89\endash 96}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 97\endash 100}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2354\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3465\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4598\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5920\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6781\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2354\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3465\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx4598\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5920\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6781\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 False destination (1d20+80)}{\fs18\cf0 \cell 
}\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 81\endash 92}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 93\endash 100}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2354\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3465\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4598\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5920\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6781\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Teleport Object
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Teleportation)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 7
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One touched object of up to 50 lb./level and 3 cu. ft./level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (object)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (object)
\par This spell functions like }{\i\fs20\cf0 teleport, }{\fs20\cf0 except that it teleports an object, not you. Creatures and magical forces cannot be teleported.
\par If desired, the target object can be sent to a distant location on the Ethereal Plane. In this case, the point from which the object was teleported remains faintly magical until the item is retrieved. A successful targeted }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel magic }{
\fs20\cf0 spell cast on that point brings the vanished item back from the Ethereal Plane.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Teleport, Greater
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Teleportation)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 7, Travel 7
\par This spell functions like }{\i\fs20\cf0 teleport, }{\fs20\cf0 e
xcept that there is no range limit and there is no chance you arrive off target. In addition, you need not have seen the destination, but in that case you must have at least a reliable description of the place to which you are teleporting. If you attempt 
to teleport with insufficient information (or with misleading information), you disappear and simply reappear in your original location. Interplanar travel is not possible.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Teleportation Circle
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Teleportation)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 9
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  10 minutes
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  0 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  5-ft.-radius circle that teleports those who activate it
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  10 min./level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par You create a circle on the floor or other horizontal surface that teleports, as }{\i\fs20\cf0 greater teleport, }{\fs20\cf0 any creature who stands on it to a designated spot. Once you designate the destination for the circle, you can\rquote 
t change it. The spell fails if you attempt to set the circle to teleport creatures into a solid object, to a place with which you are not familiar and have no clear description, or to another plane.
\par The circle itself is subtle and nearly impossible to notice. If you intend to keep creatures from activating it accidentally, you need to mark the circle in some way.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Teleportation circle }{\fs20\cf0 can be made permanent with a }{\i\fs20\cf0 permanency }{\fs20\cf0 spell. A permanent }{\i\fs20\cf0 teleportation circle }{\fs20\cf0 
that is disabled becomes inactive for 10 minutes, then can be triggered again as normal.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Note: }{\fs20\cf0 Magic traps such as }{\i\fs20\cf0 teleportation circle }{\fs20\cf0 are hard to detect and disable. A rogue
 (only) can use the Search skill to find the circle and Disable Device to thwart it. The DC in each case is 25 + spell level, or 34 in the case of }{\i\fs20\cf0 teleportation circle}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 Amber dust to cover the area of the circle (cost 1,000 gp).
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Temporal Stasis
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 8
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Creature touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Permanent
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Fortitude negates
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par You must succeed on a melee touch attack. You place
 the subject into a state of suspended animation. For the creature, time ceases to flow and its condition becomes fixed. The creature does not grow older. Its body functions virtually cease, and no force or effect can harm it. This state persists until th
e magic is removed (such as by a successful }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel magic }{\fs20\cf0 spell or a }{\i\fs20\cf0 freedom }{\fs20\cf0 spell).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A powder composed of diamond, emerald, ruby, and sapphire dust with a total value of at least 5,000 gp.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Time Stop
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 9, Trickery 9
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Personal
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  You
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1d4+1 rounds (apparent time); see text
\par This spell seems to make time cease to flow for everyone but you. In fact, you speed up so greatly that all other creatures seem
 frozen, though they are actually still moving at their normal speeds. You are free to act for 1d4+1 rounds of apparent time. Normal and magical fire, cold, gas, and the like can still harm you. While the }{\i\fs20\cf0 time stop }{\fs20\cf0 
is in effect, other creatures are invulnerable to your attacks and spells; you cannot target such creatures with any attack or spell. A spell that affects an area and has a duration longer than the remaining duration of the }{\i\fs20\cf0 time stop}{
\fs20\cf0  have their normal effects on other creatures once the }{\i\fs20\cf0 time stop }{\fs20\cf0 ends. Most spellcasters use the additional time to improve their defenses, summon allies, or flee from combat.
\par You cannot move or harm items held, carried, or worn by a creature stuck in normal time, but you can affect any item that is not in another creature\rquote s possession.
\par You are undetectable while }{\i\fs20\cf0 time stop }{\fs20\cf0 lasts. You cannot enter an area protected by an }{\i\fs20\cf0 antimagic field }{\fs20\cf0 while under the effect of }{\i\fs20\cf0 time stop.
\par }{\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Tiny Hut
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Force]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 3
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  20 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  20-ft.-radius sphere centered on your location
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  2 hours/level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par You create an unmoving, opaque sphere of force of any color you desire around yourself. Half the sphere projects a
bove the ground, and the lower hemisphere passes through the ground. As many as nine other Medium creatures can fit into the field with you; they can freely pass into and out of the hut without harming it. However, if you remove yourself from the hut, the
 spell ends.
\par The temperature inside the hut is 70\'b0 F if the exterior temperature is between 0\'b0 and 100\'b0 F. An exterior temperature below 0\'b0 or above 100\'b0
 lowers or raises the interior temperature on a 1-degree-for-1 basis. The hut also provides protection against the elements, such as rain, dust, and sandstorms. The hut withstands any wind of less than hurricane force, but a hurricane (75+ mph wind speed)
 or greater force destroys it.
\par The interior of the hut is a hemisphere. You can illuminate it dimly upon command or extinguish the light as desired. Although the force field is opaque from the outside, it is transparent from within. Missiles, weapons, and m
ost spell effects can pass through the hut without affecting it, although the occupants cannot be seen from outside the hut (they have total concealment).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A small crystal bead that shatters when the spell duration expires or the }{\i\fs20\cf0 hut }{\fs20\cf0 is dispelled.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Tongues
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Divination
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 2, Clr 4, Sor/Wiz 3
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, M/DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Creature touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  10 min./level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (harmless)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par This spell grants the
 creature touched the ability to speak and understand the language of any intelligent creature, whether it is a racial tongue or a regional dialect. The subject can speak only one language at a time, although it may be able to understand several languages
. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Tongues }{\fs20\cf0 does not enable the subject to speak with creatures who don\rquote 
t speak. The subject can make itself understood as far as its voice carries. This spell does not predispose any creature addressed toward the subject in any way.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Tongues }{\fs20\cf0 can be made permanent with a }{\i\fs20\cf0 permanency }{\fs20\cf0 spell.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A small clay model of a ziggurat, which shatters when the verbal component is pronounced.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Touch of Fatigue
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Necromancy
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 0
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Creature touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round/level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Fortitude negates
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par You channel negative energy through your touch, fatiguing the target. You must succeed on a touch attack to strike a target.
\par The subject is immediately fatigued for the spell\rquote s duration.
\par This spell has no effect on a creature that is already fatigued. Unlike with normal fatigue, the effect ends as soon as the spell\rquote s duration expires.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A drop of sweat.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Touch of Idiocy
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 2
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Living creature touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  10 min./level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par With a touch, you reduce the target\rquote s mental faculties. Your successful melee touch attack applies a 1d6 penalty to the target\rquote s Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores. This penalty can\rquote t reduce any of these scores below 1.
\par This spell\rquote s effect may make it impossible for the target to cast some or all of its spells, if the requisite ability score drops below the minimum required to cast spells of that level.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Transformation
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 6
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Personal
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  You
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round/level
\par You become a virtual fighting machine\emdash  stronger, tougher, faster, and more skilled in combat. Your mind-set changes so that you relish combat and you can\rquote t cast spells, even from magic items.
\par You gain a +4 enhancement bonus to Streng
th, Dexterity, and Constitution, a +4 natural armor bonus to AC, a +5 competence bonus on Fortitude saves, and proficiency with all simple and martial weapons. Your base attack bonus equals your character level (which may give you multiple attacks).

\par You lose your spellcasting ability, including your ability to use spell activation or spell completion magic items, just as if the spells were no longer on your class list.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A }{\i\fs20\cf0 potion of bull\rquote s strength}{\fs20\cf0 , which you drink (and whose effects are subsumed by the spell effects).
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Transmute Metal to Wood
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Drd 7
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  All metal objects within a 40-ft.-radius burst
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (object; see text)
\par This spell enables you to change all metal objects within its area to wood. Weapons, armor, and other metal objects carried by creatures are affected as well. A magic object made of metal effectiv
ely has spell resistance equal to 20 + its caster level against this spell. Artifacts cannot be transmuted. Weapons converted from metal to wood take a \endash 
2 penalty on attack and damage rolls. The armor bonus of any armor converted from metal to wood is redu
ced by 2. Weapons changed by this spell splinter and break on any natural attack roll of 1 or 2, and armor changed by this spell loses an additional point of armor bonus every time it is struck with a natural attack roll of 19 or 20.
\par Only }{\i\fs20\cf0 limited wish, miracle, wish, }{\fs20\cf0 or similar magic can restore a transmuted object to its metallic state.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Transmute Mud to Rock
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation [Earth]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Drd 5, Sor/Wiz 5
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M/DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  Up to two 10-ft. cubes/level (S)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Permanent
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  See text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par This spell transforms normal mud or quicksand of any depth into soft stone (sandstone or a similar mineral) permanently.
\par Any creature in the mud is allowed a Reflex save to escape before the area is hardened to stone.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Transmute mud to rock }{\fs20\cf0 counters and dispels }{\i\fs20\cf0 transmute rock to mud}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 Sand, lime, and water.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Transmute Rock to Mud
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation [Earth]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Drd 5, Sor/Wiz 5
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M/DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  Up to two 10-ft. cubes/level (S)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Permanent; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  See text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par This spell turns natural, uncut or unworked rock of any sort
 into an equal volume of mud. Magical stone is not affected by the spell. The depth of the mud created cannot exceed 10 feet. A creature unable to levitate, fly, or otherwise free itself from the mud sinks until hip- or chest-deep, reducing its speed to 5
 feet and causing a \endash 2 penalty on attack rolls and AC. Brush thrown atop the mud can support creatures able to climb on top of it. Creatures large enough to walk on the bottom can wade through the area at a speed of 5 feet.
\par If }{\i\fs20\cf0 transmute rock to mud }{\fs20\cf0 is cast 
upon the ceiling of a cavern or tunnel, the mud falls to the floor and spreads out in a pool at a depth of 5 feet. The falling mud and the ensuing cave-in deal 8d6 points of bludgeoning damage to anyone caught directly beneath the area, or half damage to 
those who succeed on Reflex saves.
\par Castles and large stone buildings are generally immune to the effect of the spell, since }{\i\fs20\cf0 transmute rock to mud }{\fs20\cf0 can\rquote t affect worked stone and doesn\rquote t reach deep enough to undermine such buildings\rquote 
 foundations. However, small buildings or structures often rest upon foundations shallow enough to be damaged or even partially toppled by this spell.
\par The mud remains until a successful }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel magic }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 transmute mud to rock }{\fs20\cf0 spell restores its substance\emdash but not necessarily its form. 
Evaporation turns the mud to normal dirt over a period of days. The exact time depends on exposure to the sun, wind, and normal drainage.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 Clay and water.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Transport via Plants
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Teleportation)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Drd 6
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Unlimited
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  You and touched objects or other touched willing creatures
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par You can enter any normal plant (Medium or larger) and pass any distance to a plant of the s
ame kind in a single round, regardless of the distance separating the two. The entry plant must be alive. The destination plant need not be familiar to you, but it also must be alive. If you are uncertain of the location of a particular kind of destinatio
n plant, you need merely designate direction and distance and the }{\i\fs20\cf0 transport via plants }{\fs20\cf0 
spell moves you as close as possible to the desired location. If a particular destination plant is desired but the plant is not living, the spell fails and you are ejected from the entry plant.
\par You can bring along objects as long as their weight doesn\rquote t exceed your maximum load. You may also bring one additional willing Medium or smaller creature (carrying gear or objects up to its maximum load) or its equivalent per three
 caster levels. Use the following equivalents to determine the maximum number of larger creatures you can bring along: A Large creature counts as two Medium creatures, a Huge creature counts as two Large creatures, and so forth. All creatures to be transp
orted must be in contact with one another, and at least one of those creatures must be in contact with you.
\par You can\rquote t use this spell to travel through plant creatures.
\par The destruction of an occupied plant slays you and any creatures you have brought along, and ejects the bodies and all carried objects from the tree.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Trap the Soul
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Summoning)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 8
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M, (F); see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action or see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One creature
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Permanent; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  See text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes; see text
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Trap the soul }{\fs20\cf0 forces a creature\rquote s life force (and its material body) into a gem. The gem holds the trapped entity indefinitely or until the gem is broken and the
 life force is released, which allows the material body to reform. If the trapped creature is a powerful creature from another plane it can be required to perform a service immediately upon being freed. Otherwise, the creature can go free once the gem imp
risoning it is broken.
\par Depending on the version selected, the spell can be triggered in one of two ways.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Spell Completion: }{\fs20\cf0 First, the spell can be completed by speaking its final
 word as a standard action as if you were casting a regular spell at the subject. This allows spell resistance (if any) and a Will save to avoid the effect. If the creature\rquote 
s name is spoken as well, any spell resistance is ignored and the save DC increases by 2. If the save or spell resistance is successful, the gem shatters.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Trigger Object: }{\fs20\cf0 The second method is far more insidious, for it tricks the subject into accepting a trigger object inscribed with the final spell word, automatically placing the creature\rquote 
s soul in the trap. To use this method, both the creature\rquote s name and the trigger word must be inscribed on the trigger object when the gem is enspelled. A }{\i\fs20\cf0 sympathy }{\fs20\cf0 
spell can also be placed on the trigger object. As soon as the subject picks up or accepts the trigger object, its life force is automatically transferred to the gem without the benefit of spell resistance or a save.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 Before the actual casting of }{\i\fs20\cf0 trap the soul, }{\fs20\cf0 you must procure a gem of at least 1,000 gp value for every Hit 
Die possessed by the creature to be trapped. If the gem is not valuable enough, it shatters when the entrapment is attempted. (While creatures have no concept of level or Hit Dice as such, the value of the gem needed to trap an individual can be researche
d. Remember that this value can change over time as creatures gain more Hit Dice.)
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Focus (Trigger Object Only): }{\fs20\cf0 If the trigger object method is used, a special trigger object, prepared as described above, is needed.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Tree Shape
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Drd 2, Rgr 3
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Personal
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  You
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 hour/level (D)
\par By means of this spell, you are able to assume the form of a Large living tree or shrub or a Large dead tree trunk with a small number of limbs
. The closest inspection cannot reveal that the tree in question is actually a magically concealed creature. To all normal tests you are, in fact, a tree or shrub, although a }{\i\fs20\cf0 detect magic }{\fs20\cf0 
spell reveals a faint transmutation on the tree. While in tree form,
 you can observe all that transpires around you just as if you were in your normal form, and your hit points and save bonuses remain unaffected. You gain a +10 natural armor bonus to AC but have an effective Dexterity score of 0 and a speed of 0 feet. You
 are immune to critical hits while in tree form. All clothing and gear carried or worn changes with you.
\par You can dismiss }{\i\fs20\cf0 tree shape }{\fs20\cf0 as a free action (instead of as a standard action).
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Tree Stride
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Teleportation)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Drd 5, Rgr 4
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Personal
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  You
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 hour/level or until expended; see text
\par You gain the ability to enter trees and move from inside one tree to inside another tree. The first tree you enter and all others you e
nter must be of the same kind, must be living, and must have girth at least equal to yours. By moving into an oak tree (for example), you instantly know the location of all other oak trees within transport range (see below) and may choose whether you want
 to pass into one or simply step back out of the tree you moved into. You may choose to pass to any tree of the appropriate kind within the transport range as shown on the following table.
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1425\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3114
\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Type of Tree\cell Transport Range\cell }\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1425\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3114\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1425\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3114\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Oak, ash, yew}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 3,000 feet}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1425\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx3114\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Elm, linden}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 2,000 feet}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1425\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3114\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Other deciduous}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 1,500 feet}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1425\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3114\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Any coniferous}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 
1,000 feet}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1425\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3114\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1425\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3114\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20\cf0 All other trees}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 500 feet}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1425\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3114\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\cf0 
You may move into a tree up to one time per caster level (passing from one tree to another counts only as moving into one tree). The spell lasts until the duration expires or you exit a tree. Each transport is a full-round action.
\par You can, at your option, remain within a tree without transporting yourself, but you are forced out when the spell ends. If the tree in which you are concealed is chopped down or burned, you are slain if you do not exit before the process is complete.

\par 
\par }{\cf0 True Resurrection
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Healing)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 9
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  10 minutes
\par This spell functions like }{\i\fs20\cf0 raise dead, }{\fs20\cf0 except that you can resurrect a creature that has been dead for as long as 10 years per caster level. This spell can even bring back creatures whose bodies have been de
stroyed, provided that you unambiguously identify the deceased in some fashion (reciting the deceased\rquote s time and place of birth or death is the most common method).
\par Upon completion of the spell, the creature is immediately restored to full hit points, vigor, and health, with no loss of level (or Constitution points) or prepared spells.
\par You can revive someone killed by a death effect or someone who has been turned into an undead creature and then destroyed. This spell can also resurrect elementals or outsiders, but it can\rquote t resurrect constructs or undead creatures.
\par Even }{\i\fs20\cf0 true resurrection }{\fs20\cf0 can\rquote t restore to life a creature who has died of old age.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A sprinkle of holy water and diamonds worth a total of at least 25,000 gp.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 True Seeing
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Divination
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 5, Drd 7, Knowledge 5, Sor/Wiz 6
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Creature touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 min./level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (harmless)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (harmless)
\par You confer on the subject the ability to see all things as they actually are. The subject sees through normal and magical darkness, notices secret doors hidden by magic, sees the exact locations of creatures or objects under }{\i\fs20\cf0 blur }{
\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 displacement }{\fs20\cf0 effects, s
ees invisible creatures or objects normally, sees through illusions, and sees the true form of polymorphed, changed, or transmuted things. Further, the subject can focus its vision to see into the Ethereal Plane (but not into extradimensional spaces). The
 range of }{\i\fs20\cf0 true seeing }{\fs20\cf0 conferred is 120 feet.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 True seeing}{\fs20\cf0 , however, does not penetrate solid objects. It in no way confers X-ray vision or its equivalent. It does not negate concealment, including that caused by fog and the like. }{\i\fs20\cf0 True seeing }{\fs20\cf0 
does not help the viewer see through mundane disguises, spot creatures who are simply hiding, or notice secret doors hidden by mundane means. In addition, the spell effects cannot be further enhanced with known magic, so one cannot use }{\i\fs20\cf0 
true seeing }{\fs20\cf0 through a }{\i\fs20\cf0 crystal ball }{\fs20\cf0 or in conjunction with }{\i\fs20\cf0 clairaudience/clairvoyance}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 An ointment for the eyes that costs 250 gp and is made from mushroom powder, saffron, and fat.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 True Strike
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Divination
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 1
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, F
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Personal
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  You
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  See text
\par You gain temporary, intuitive insight into the immediate future during your next attack. Your next single attack roll (if it is made before the end of the next round) gains a +20 insight bonus. Additionally, yo
u are not affected by the miss chance that applies to attackers trying to strike a concealed target.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Focus: }{\fs20\cf0 A small wooden replica of an archery target.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Undeath to Death
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Necromancy
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 6, Sor/Wiz 6
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M/DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  Several undead creatures within a 40-ft.-radius burst
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates
\par This spell functions like }{\i\fs20\cf0 circle of death}{\fs20\cf0 , except that it destroys undead creatures as noted above.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 The powder of a crushed diamond worth at least 500 gp.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Undetectable Alignment
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjuration
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 1, Clr 2, Pal 2
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One creature or object
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  24 hours
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (object)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (object)
\par An }{\i\fs20\cf0 undetectable alignment }{\fs20\cf0 spell conceals the alignment of an object or a creature from all forms of divination.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Unhallow
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Evil]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 5, Drd 5
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  24 hours
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  40-ft. radius emanating from the touched point
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  See text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  See text
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Unhallow }{\fs20\cf0 makes a particular site, building, or structure an unholy site. This has three major effects.
\par First, the site or structure is guarded by a }{\i\fs20\cf0 magic circle against good }{\fs20\cf0 effect.
\par Second, all turning checks made to turn undead take a \endash 4 penalty, and turning checks to rebuke undead gain a +4 profane bonus. Spell resistance does not apply to this effect. (This provision does not apply to the druid version of the spell.)
\par Finally, you may choose to fix a single spell effect to the }{\i\fs20\cf0 unhallowed }{\fs20\cf0 site. The spell effect lasts for one year and functions throughout the entire site, regardless of its normal duration and area or effect. You may desig
nate whether the effect applies to all creatures, creatures that share your faith or alignment, or creatures that adhere to another faith or alignment. At the end of the year, the chosen effect lapses, but it can be renewed or replaced simply by casting }
{\i\fs20\cf0 unhallow }{\fs20\cf0 again.
\par Spell effects that may be tied to an }{\i\fs20\cf0 unhallowed }{\fs20\cf0 site include }{\i\fs20\cf0 
aid, bane, bless, cause fear, darkness, daylight, death ward, deeper darkness, detect magic, detect good, dimensional anchor, discern lies, dispel magic, endure elements, freedom of
 movement, invisibility purge, protection from energy, remove fear, resist energy, silence, tongues, }{\fs20\cf0 and }{\i\fs20\cf0 zone of truth}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par Saving throws and spell resistance might apply to these spells\rquote  effects. (See the individual spell descriptions for details.)
\par An area can receive only one }{\i\fs20\cf0 unhallow }{\fs20\cf0 spell (and its associated spell effect) at a time.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Unhallow }{\fs20\cf0 counters but does not dispel }{\i\fs20\cf0 hallow}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 Herbs, oils, and incense worth at least 1,000 gp, plus 1,000 gp per level of the spell to be tied to the }{\i\fs20\cf0 unhallowed }{\fs20\cf0 area.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Unholy Aura
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjuration [Evil]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 8, Evil 8
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, F
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  20 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Targets:}{\fs20\cf0  One creature/level in a 20-ft.-radius burst centered on you
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round/level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  See text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (harmless)
\par A malevolent darkness surrounds the subjects, protecting them from attacks, granting them resistance to spells cast by good creatures, and weakening good creatures when they strike the subjects. This abjuration has four effects.
\par First, each warded creature gains a +4 deflection bonus to AC and a +4 resistance bonus on saves. Unlike the effect of }{\i\fs20\cf0 protection from good}{\fs20\cf0 , this benefit applies against all attacks, not just against attacks by good creatures.

\par Second, a warded creature gains spell resistance 25 against good spells and spells cast by good creatures.
\par Third, the abjuration blocks possession and mental influence, just as }{\i\fs20\cf0 protection from good }{\fs20\cf0 does.
\par Finally, if a good creature succeeds on a melee attack against a warded creature, the offending attacker takes 1d6 points of temporary Strength damage (Fortitude negates).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Focus: }{\fs20\cf0 A tiny reliquary containing some sacred relic, such as a piece of parchment from an unholy text. The reliquary costs at least 500 gp.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Unholy Blight
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Evil]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Evil 4
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  20-ft.-radius spread
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous (1d4 rounds); see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will partial
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par You call up unholy power to smite your enemies. The power takes the form of a cold, cloying miasma of greasy darkness.
\par Only good and neutral (not evil) creatures are harmed by the spell.
\par The spell deals 1d8 points of damage per two caster levels (maximum 5
d8) to a good creature (or 1d6 per caster level, maximum 10d6, to a good outsider) and causes it to be sickened for 1d4 rounds. A successful Will save reduces damage to half and negates the sickened effect. The effects cannot be negated by }{\i\fs20\cf0 
remove disease }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 heal, }{\fs20\cf0 but }{\i\fs20\cf0 remove curse }{\fs20\cf0 is effective.
\par The spell deals only half damage to creatures who are neither evil nor good, and they are not sickened. Such a creature can reduce the damage in half again (down to one-quarter) with a successful Will save.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Unseen Servant
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Creation)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 1, Sor/Wiz 1
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  One invisible, mindless, shapeless servant
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 hour/level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par An }{\i\fs20\cf0 unseen servant }{\fs20\cf0 
is an invisible, mindless, shapeless force that performs simple tasks at your command. It can run and fetch things, open unstuck doors, and hold chairs, as well as clean and mend. The servant can perform only one activity at a time, bu
t it repeats the same activity over and over again if told to do so as long as you remain within range. It can open only normal doors, drawers, lids, and the like. It has an effective Strength score of 2 (so it can lift 20 pounds or drag 100 pounds). It c
an trigger traps and such, but it can exert only 20 pounds of force, which is not enough to activate certain pressure plates and other devices. It can\rquote 
t perform any task that requires a skill check with a DC higher than 10 or that requires a check using a skill that can\rquote t be used untrained. Its speed is 15 feet.
\par The servant cannot attack in any way; it is never allowed an attack roll. It cannot be killed, but it dissipates if it takes 6 points of damage from area attacks. (It gets no saves against attacks.) If you attempt to send it beyond the spell\rquote 
s range (measured from your current position), the servant ceases to exist.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A piece of string and a bit of wood.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Vampiric Touch
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Necromancy
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 3
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Living creature touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous/1 hour; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par You must succeed on a melee touch attack. Your touch deals 1d6 points of damage per two caster levels (maximum 10d6). You gain temporary hit points equal to the damage you deal. However, you can\rquote t gain more than the subject\rquote 
s current hit points +10, which is enough to kill the subject. The temporary hit points disappear 1 hour later.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Veil
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Illusion (Glamer)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 6, Sor/Wiz 6
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Targets:}{\fs20\cf0  One or more creatures, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Concentration + 1 hour/level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes; see text
\par You instantly change the appearance of the subjects and then maintain that appearance for the spell\rquote s durati
on. You can make the subjects appear to be anything you wish. The subjects look, feel, and smell just like the creatures the spell makes them resemble. Affected creatures resume their normal appearances if slain. You must succeed on a Disguise check to du
plicate the appearance of a specific individual. This spell gives you a +10 bonus on the check.
\par Unwilling targets can negate the spell\rquote s effect on them by making Will saves or with spell resistance. Those who interact with the subjects can attempt Will disbelief saves to see through the glamer, but spell resistance doesn\rquote t help.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Ventriloquism
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Illusion (Figment)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 1, Sor/Wiz 1
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, F
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  Intelligible sound, usually speech
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 min./level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will disbelief (if interacted with)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par You can make your voice (or any sound that you can normally make vocally) seem to issue from someplace else. You can speak in any language you know. Wi
th respect to such voices and sounds, anyone who hears the sound and rolls a successful save recognizes it as illusory (but still hears it).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Focus: }{\fs20\cf0 A parchment rolled up into a small cone.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Virtue
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 0, Drd 0, Pal 1
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Creature touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 min.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Fortitude negates (harmless)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (harmless)
\par The subject gains 1 temporary hit point.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Vision
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Divination
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 7
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M, XP
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par This spell functions like }{\i\fs20\cf0 legend lore, }{\fs20\cf0 except that it works more quickly but produces some strain on you. You pose a question about some person, place, or object, then cast the spell. If the person or objec
t is at hand or if you are in the place in question, you receive a vision about it by succeeding on a caster level check (1d20 +1 per caster level; maximum +25) against DC 20. If only detailed information on the person, place, or object is known, the DC i
s 25, and the information gained is incomplete. If only rumors are known, the DC is 30, and the information gained is vague.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 XP Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 100 XP.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Wail of the Banshee
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Necromancy [Death, Sonic]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Death 9, Sor/Wiz 9
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  One living creature/level within a 40-ft.-radius spread
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Fortitude negates
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par You emit a terrible scream that kills creatures that hear it (except for yourself ). Creatures closest to the point of origin are affected first.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Wall of Fire
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Fire]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Drd 5, Fire 4, Sor/Wiz 4
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M/DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  Opaque sheet of flame up to 20 ft. long/level or a ring of fire with a radius of up to 5 ft. per two levels; either form 20 ft. high
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Concentration + 1 round/level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par An immobile, blazing curtain of shimmering violet fire springs into existence. One side of the wall, selected by you, sends forth waves of heat, dealing 2d4 points of fire damage to creatures within 10 feet and 1d4 points of fire damage to tho
se past 10 feet but within 20 feet. The wall deals this damage when it appears and on your turn each round to all creatures in the area. In addition, the wall deals 2d6 points of fire damage +1 point of fire damage per caster level (maximum +20) to any cr
eature passing through it. The wall deals double damage to undead creatures.
\par If you evoke the wall so that it appears where creatures are, each creature takes damage as if passing through the wall. If any 5-foot length of wall takes 20 points of cold damage
 or more in 1 round, that length goes out. (Do not divide cold damage by 4, as normal for objects.)
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Wall of fire }{\fs20\cf0 can be made permanent with a }{\i\fs20\cf0 permanency }{\fs20\cf0 spell. A permanent }{\i\fs20\cf0 wall of fire }{\fs20\cf0 that is extinguished by cold damage becomes inactive for 10 minutes, th
en reforms at normal strength.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A small piece of phosphorus.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Wall of Force
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Force]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 5
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect: }{\fs20\cf0 Wall whose area is up to one 10-ft. square/level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round /level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par A }{\i\fs20\cf0 wall of force }{\fs20\cf0 spell creates an invisible wall of force. The wall cannot move, it is immune to damage of all kinds, and it is unaffected by most spells, including }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel magic}{\fs20\cf0 . However, }{\i\fs20\cf0 
disintegrate }{\fs20\cf0 immediately destroys it, as does a }{\i\fs20\cf0 rod of cancellation}{\fs20\cf0 , a }{\i\fs20\cf0 sphere of annihilation, }{\fs20\cf0 or a }{\i\fs20\cf0 mage\rquote s disjunction }{\fs20\cf0 
spell. Breath weapons and spells cannot pass through the wall in either direction, although }{\i\fs20\cf0 dimension door, teleport, }{\fs20\cf0 
and similar effects can bypass the barrier. It blocks ethereal creatures as well as material ones (though ethereal creatures can usually get around the wall by floating under or over it through material floors and ceilings). Gaze at
tacks can operate through a }{\i\fs20\cf0 wall of force}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
The caster can form the wall into a flat, vertical plane whose area is up to one 10- foot square per level. The wall must be continuous and unbroken when formed. If its surface is broken by any object or creature, the spell fails.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i\fs20\cf0 Wall of force }{\fs20\cf0 can be made permanent with a }{\i\fs20\cf0 permanency }{\fs20\cf0 spell.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A pinch of powder made from a clear gem.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Wall of Ice
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Cold]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 4
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  Anchored plane of ice, up to one 10-ft. square/level, or hemisphere of ice with a radius of up to 3 ft. + 1 ft./level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 min./level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Reflex negates; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par This spell creates an anchored plane of ice or a hemisphere of ice, depending on the version selected. A }{\i\fs20\cf0 wall of ice }{\fs20\cf0 
cannot form in an area occupied by physical objects or creatures. Its surface must be smooth and unbroken when created. Any creature adjacent to the wall when it i
s created may attempt a Reflex save to disrupt the wall as it is being formed. A successful save indicates that the spell automatically fails. Fire can melt a }{\i\fs20\cf0 wall of ice, }{\fs20\cf0 
and it deals full damage to the wall (instead of the normal half damage taken by objects). Suddenly melting a }{\i\fs20\cf0 wall of ice }{\fs20\cf0 creates a great cloud of steamy fog that lasts for 10 minutes.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Ice Plane: }{\fs20\cf0 A sheet of strong, hard ice appears. The wall is 1 inch thick per caster level. It covers up to a 10-foot-square area per caster level (so a 10t
h-level wizard can create a wall of ice 100 feet long and 10 feet high, a wall 50 feet long and 20 feet high, or some other combination of length and height that does not exceed 1,000 square feet). The plane can be oriented in any fashion as long as it is
 anchored. A vertical wall need only be anchored on the floor, while a horizontal or slanting wall must be anchored on two opposite sides.
\par Each 10-foot square of wall has 3 hit points per inch of thickness. Creatures can hit the wall automatically. A sectio
n of wall whose hit points drop to 0 is breached. If a creature tries to break through the wall with a single attack, the DC for the Strength check is 15 + caster level.
\par Even when the ice has been broken through, a sheet of frigid air remains. Any creature stepping through it (including the one who broke through the wall) takes 1d6 points of cold damage +1 point per caster level (no save).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Hemisphere: }{\fs20\cf0 The wall takes the form of a hemisphere whose maximum radius is 3 feet + 1 foot per caster level. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 hemisphere }{\fs20\cf0 is as hard to break through as the }{\i\fs20\cf0 ice plane }{\fs20\cf0 
form, but it does not deal damage to those who go through a breach.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A small piece of quartz or similar rock crystal.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Wall of Iron
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Creation)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 6
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  Iron wall whose area is up to one 5-ft. square/level; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  See text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par You cause a flat, vertical iron wall to spring into being. The wall inserts itself into any surrounding nonliving material if its area is sufficient to do so. The wall cannot be conjured so that it occupies the same space as a creature or another object. 
It must always be a flat plane, though you can shape its edges to fit the available space.
\par A }{\i\fs20\cf0 wall of iron }{\fs20\cf0 is 1 inch thick per four caster levels. You can double the wall\rquote s area by halving its thickness. Each 5- foot square of the wall has 30 hit points per 
inch of thickness and hardness 10. A section of wall whose hit points drop to 0 is breached. If a creature tries to break through the wall with a single attack, the DC for the Strength check is 25 + 2 per inch of thickness.
\par If you desire, the wall can be c
reated vertically resting on a flat surface but not attached to the surface, so that it can be tipped over to fall on and crush creatures beneath it. The wall is 50% likely to tip in either direction if left unpushed. Creatures can push the wall in one di
r
ection rather than letting it fall randomly. A creature must make a DC 40 Strength check to push the wall over. Creatures with room to flee the falling wall may do so by making successful Reflex saves. Any Large or smaller creature that fails takes 10d6 p
oints of damage. The wall cannot crush Huge and larger creatures.
\par Like any iron wall, this wall is subject to rust, perforation, and other natural phenomena.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A small piece of sheet iron plus gold dust worth 50 gp (1 pound of gold dust).
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Wall of Stone
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Creation) [Earth]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 5, Drd 6, Earth 5, Sor/Wiz 5
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M/DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  Stone wall whose area is up to one 5-ft. square/level (S)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  See text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par This spell creates a wall of rock that merges into adjoining rock surfaces. A }{\i\fs20\cf0 wall of stone }{\fs20\cf0 is 1 inch thick per four caster levels and composed of up to one 5-foot square per level. You can double the wall\rquote 
s area by halving its thickness. The wall cannot be conjured so that it occupies the same space as a creature or another object.
\par Unlike a }{\i\fs20\cf0 wall of iron, }{\fs20\cf0 you can create a }{\i\fs20\cf0 wall of stone }{\fs20\cf0 in almost any shape you desire. The wall created need not be ver
tical, nor rest upon any firm foundation; however, it must merge with and be solidly supported by existing stone. It can be used to bridge a chasm, for instance, or as a ramp. For this use, if the span is more than 20 feet, the wall must be arched and but
tressed. This requirement reduces the spell\rquote s area by half. The wall can be crudely shaped to allow crenellations, battlements, and so forth by likewise reducing the area.
\par Like any other stone wall, this one can be destroyed by a }{\i\fs20\cf0 disintegrate }{\fs20\cf0 spell or by no
rmal means such as breaking and chipping. Each 5-foot square of the wall has 15 hit points per inch of thickness and hardness 8. A section of wall whose hit points drop to 0 is breached. If a creature tries to break through the wall with a single attack, 
the DC for the Strength check is 20 + 2 per inch of thickness.
\par It is possible, but difficult, to trap mobile opponents within or under a }{\i\fs20\cf0 wall of stone}{\fs20\cf0 , provided the wall is shaped so it can hold the creatures. Creatures can avoid entrapment with successful Reflex saves.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A small block of granite.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Wall of Thorns
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Creation)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Drd 5, Plant 5
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect: }{\fs20\cf0 Wall of thorny brush, up to one 10-ft. cube/level (S)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  10 min./level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par A }{\i\fs20\cf0 wall of thorns }{\fs20\cf0 spell creates a barrier of very tough, pliable, tangled brush bearing needle-sharp thorns as long as a human\rquote s finger. Any creature forced into or attempting to move through a }{\i\fs20\cf0 wall of thorns 
}{\fs20\cf0 takes slashing damage per round of movement equal to 25 minus the creature\rquote s AC. Dexterity and dodge bonuses to AC do not count for this calculation. (Creatures with an Armor Class o
f 25 or higher, without considering Dexterity and dodge bonuses, take no damage from contact with the wall.)
\par You can make the wall as thin as 5 feet thick, which allows you to shape the wall as a number of 10-by-10-by-5-foot blocks equal to twice your cast
er level. This has no effect on the damage dealt by the thorns, but any creature attempting to break through takes that much less time to force its way through the barrier.
\par Creatures can force their way slowly through the wall by making a Strength check as
 a full-round action. For every 5 points by which the check exceeds 20, a creature moves 5 feet (up to a maximum distance equal to its normal land speed). Of course, moving or attempting to move through the thorns incurs damage as described above. A creat
ure trapped in the thorns can choose to remain motionless in order to avoid taking any more damage.
\par Any creature within the area of the spell when it is cast takes damage as if it had moved into the wall and is caught inside. In order to escape, it must att
empt to push its way free, or it can wait until the spell ends. Creatures with the ability to pass through overgrown areas unhindered can pass through a }{\i\fs20\cf0 wall of thorns }{\fs20\cf0 at normal speed without taking damage.
\par A }{\i\fs20\cf0 wall of thorns }{\fs20\cf0 can be breached by slow work wit
h edged weapons. Chopping away at the wall creates a safe passage 1 foot deep for every 10 minutes of work. Normal fire cannot harm the barrier, but magical fire burns it away in 10 minutes.
\par Despite its appearance, a }{\i\fs20\cf0 wall of thorns }{\fs20\cf0 is not actually a living plant, and thus is unaffected by spells that affect plants.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Warp Wood
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Drd 2
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  1 Small wooden object/level, all within a 20-ft. radius
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (object)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (object)
\par You cause wood to bend and warp, permanently destroying its straightness, form, and strength. A warped door springs open (or becomes stuck, requiring a Strength check to 
open, at your option). A boat or ship springs a leak. Warped ranged weapons are useless. A warped melee weapon causes a \endash 4 penalty on attack rolls.
\par You may warp one Small or smaller object or its equivalent per caster level. A Medium object counts as two Small objects, a Large object as four, a Huge object as eight, a Gargantuan object as sixteen, and a Colossal object as thirty-two.
\par Alternatively, you can unwarp wood (effectively warping it back to normal) with this spell, straightening wood that has been warped by this spell or by other means. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Make whole}{\fs20\cf0 
, on the other hand, does no good in repairing a warped item.
\par You can combine multiple consecutive }{\i\fs20\cf0 warp wood }{\fs20\cf0 spells to warp (or unwarp) an object that is too large for you to warp with a single spell. 
\par Until the object is completely warped, it suffers no ill effects.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Water Breathing
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 3, Drd 3, Sor/Wiz 3, Water 3
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M/DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Living creatures touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  2 hours/level; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (harmless)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (harmless)
\par The transmuted creatures can breathe water freely. Divide the duration evenly among all the creatures you touch.
\par The spell does not make creatures unable to breathe air.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A short reed or piece of straw.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Water Walk
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation [Water]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 3, Rgr 3
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Targets:}{\fs20\cf0  One touched creature/level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  10 min./level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (harmless)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (harmless)
\par The transmuted creatures can tread on any liquid as if it were firm ground. Mud, oil, snow, quicksand, running water, ice, and even lava can be traversed easily, since the subjects\rquote  feet h
over an inch or two above the surface. (Creatures crossing molten lava still take damage from the heat because they are near it.) The subjects can walk, run, charge, or otherwise move across the surface as if it were normal ground.
\par If the spell is cast underwater (or while the subjects are partially or wholly submerged in whatever liquid they are in), the subjects are borne toward the surface at 60 feet per round until they can stand on it.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Waves of Exhaustion
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Necromancy
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 7
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  60 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  Cone-shaped burst
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par Waves of negative energy cause all living creatures in the spell\rquote s area to become exhausted. This spell has no effect on a creature that is already exhausted.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Waves of Fatigue
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Necromancy
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 5
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  30 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  Cone-shaped burst
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par Waves of negative energy render all living creatures in the spell\rquote s area fatigued. This spell has no effect on a creature that is already fatigued.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Web
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Creation)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 2
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect: }{\fs20\cf0 Webs in a 20-ft.-radius spread
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  10 min./level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Reflex negates; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Web }{\fs20\cf0 creates a many-layered mass of strong, sticky strands. These strands trap those caught in them. The stra
nds are similar to spider webs but far larger and tougher. These masses must be anchored to two or more solid and diametrically opposed points or else the web collapses upon itself and disappears. Creatures caught within a }{\i\fs20\cf0 web }{\fs20\cf0 
become entangled among the gluey fibers. Attacking a creature in a web won\rquote t cause you to become entangled.
\par Anyone in the effect\rquote s area when the spell is cast must make a Reflex save. If this save succeeds, the creature is entangled, but not prevented from
 moving, though moving is more difficult than normal for being entangled (see below). If the save fails, the creature is entangled and can\rquote 
t move from its space, but can break loose by spending 1 round and making a DC 20 Strength check or a DC 25 Escape Ar
tist check. Once loose (either by making the initial Reflex save or a later Strength check or Escape Artist check), a creature remains entangled, but may move through the }{\i\fs20\cf0 web }{\fs20\cf0 
very slowly. Each round devoted to moving allows the creature to make a new Strength check or Escape Artist check. The creature moves 5 feet for each full 5 points by which the check result exceeds 10.
\par If you have at least 5 feet of web between you and an opponent, it provides cover. If you have at least 20 feet of web between you, it provides total cover.
\par The strands of a }{\i\fs20\cf0 web }{\fs20\cf0 spell are flammable. A magic }{\i\fs20\cf0 flaming sword }{\fs20\cf0 
can slash them away as easily as a hand brushes away cobwebs. Any fire can set the webs alight and burn away 5 square feet in 1 round. All creatures within flaming webs take 2d4 points of fire damage from the flames.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Web }{\fs20\cf0 can be made permanent with a }{\i\fs20\cf0 permanency }{\fs20\cf0 spell. A permanent }{\i\fs20\cf0 web }{\fs20\cf0 that is damaged (but not destroyed) regrows in 10 minutes.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A bit of spider web.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Weird
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Illusion (Phantasm) [Fear, Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 9
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Targets:}{\fs20\cf0  Any number of creatures, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart
\par This spell functions like }{\i\fs20\cf0 phantasmal killer}{\fs20\cf0 , except it can affect more than one creature. Only the affected creatures see the phantasmal creatures attacking them, though you see the attackers as shadowy shapes.
\par If a subject\rquote s Fortitude save succeeds, it still takes 3d6 points of damage and is stunned for 1 round. The subject also takes 1d4 points of temporary Strength damage.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Whirlwind
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Air]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Air 8, Drd 8
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  Cyclone 10 ft. wide at base, 30 ft. wide at top, and 30 ft. tall
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round/level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Reflex negates; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par This spell creates a powerful cyclone of raging wind that moves through the air, along the ground, or over water at a speed of 60 feet per round. You can concentrate on controlling the cyclone\rquote s every movement or specify a simple program. Di
recting the cyclone\rquote s movement or changing its programmed movement is a standard action for you. The cyclone always moves during your turn. If the cyclone exceeds the spell\rquote 
s range, it moves in a random, uncontrolled fashion for 1d3 rounds and then dissipates. (You can\rquote t regain control of the cyclone, even if comes back within range.)
\par Any Large or smaller creature that comes in contact with the spell effect must succeed on a Reflex save or take 3d6 points of damage. A Medium or smaller creature that fails i
ts first save must succeed on a second one or be picked up bodily by the cyclone and held suspended in its powerful winds, taking 1d8 points of damage each round on your turn with no save allowed. You may direct the cyclone to eject any carried creatures 
whenever you wish, depositing the hapless souls wherever the cyclone happens to be when they are released.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Whispering Wind
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation [Air]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 2
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  1 mile/level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  10-ft.-radius spread
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  No more than 1 hour/level or until discharged (destination is reached)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par You send a message or sound on the wind to a designated spot. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 whispering wind }{\fs20\cf0 travels to a specific location within range that is familiar to you, provided that it can find a way to the location. A }{\i\fs20\cf0 
whispering wind }{\fs20\cf0 is as gentle and unnoticed as a zephyr until it reaches the location. It then delivers its whisper-quiet message or other sound. Note that the message 
is delivered regardless of whether anyone is present to hear it. The wind then dissipates.
\par You can prepare the spell to bear a message of no more than twenty-five words, cause the spell to deliver other sounds for 1 round, or merely have the }{\i\fs20\cf0 whispering wind }{\fs20\cf0 
seem to be a faint stirring of the air. You can likewise cause the }{\i\fs20\cf0 whispering wind }{\fs20\cf0 to move as slowly as 1 mile per hour or as quickly as 1 mile per 10 minutes.
\par When the spell reaches its objective, it swirls and remains in place until the message is delivered. As with }{\i\fs20\cf0 magic mouth, whispering wind }{\fs20\cf0 cannot speak verbal components, use command words, or activate magical effects.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Wind Walk
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation [Air]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 6, Drd 7
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Targets:}{\fs20\cf0  You and one touched creature per three levels
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 hour/level (D); see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  No and Will negates (harmless)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No and Yes (harmless)
\par You alter the substance of your body to a cloudlike vapor (as the }{\i\fs20\cf0 gaseous form }{\fs20\cf0 spell) and move through the air, possibly at great speed. You can take other creatures with you, each of which acts independently.
\par Normally, a }{\i\fs20\cf0 wind walker }{\fs20\cf0 flies at a speed of 10 feet with perfect maneuverability. If desired by the subject, a magical wind wafts a }{\i\fs20\cf0 wind walker }{\fs20\cf0 
along at up to 600 feet per round (60 mph) with poor maneuverability. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Wind walkers }{\fs20\cf0 
are not invisible but rather appear misty and translucent. If fully clothed in white, they are 80% likely to be mistaken for clouds, fog, vapors, or the like.
\par A }{\i\fs20\cf0 wind walker }{\fs20\cf0 
can regain its physical form as desired and later resume the cloud form. Each change to and from vaporous form takes 5 rounds, which counts toward the duration of the spell (as does any time spent in physical form). As noted above, you c
an dismiss the spell, and you can even dismiss it for individual wind walkers and not others.
\par For the last minute of the spell\rquote s duration, a }{\i\fs20\cf0 wind walker }{\fs20\cf0 in cloud form automatically descends 60 feet per round (for a total of 600 feet), though it may descend
 faster if it wishes. This descent serves as a warning that the spell is about to end.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Wind Wall
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Air]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Air 2, Clr 3, Drd 3, Rgr 2, Sor/Wiz 3
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M/DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect: }{\fs20\cf0 Wall up to 10 ft./level long and 5 ft./level high (S)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round/level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par An invisible vertical curtain of wind appears. It is 2 feet thick and of considerable strength. It is a roaring blast s
ufficient to blow away any bird smaller than an eagle, or tear papers and similar materials from unsuspecting hands. (A Reflex save allows a creature to maintain its grasp on an object.) Tiny and Small flying creatures cannot pass through the barrier. Loo
se materials and cloth garments fly upward when caught in a }{\i\fs20\cf0 wind wall. }{\fs20\cf0 
Arrows and bolts are deflected upward and miss, while any other normal ranged weapon passing through the wall has a 30% miss chance. (A giant-thrown boulder, a siege engine projectile, a
nd other massive ranged weapons are not affected.) Gases, most gaseous breath weapons, and creatures in gaseous form cannot pass through the wall (although it is no barrier to incorporeal creatures).
\par While the wall must be vertical, you can shape it in any continuous path along the ground that you like. It is possible to create cylindrical or square wind walls to enclose specific points. 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A tiny fan and a feather of exotic origin.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Wish
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Universal
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 9
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, XP
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  See text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target, Effect, or Area:}{\fs20\cf0  See text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  See text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  See text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Wish }{\fs20\cf0 is the mightiest spell a wizard or sorcerer can cast. By simply speaking aloud, you can alter reality to better suit you.
\par Even }{\i\fs20\cf0 wish}{\fs20\cf0 , however, has its limits.
\par A }{\i\fs20\cf0 wish }{\fs20\cf0 can produce any one of the following effects.
\par }{\cf0 \bullet  }{\fs20\cf0 Duplicate any wizard or sorcerer spell of 8th level or lower, provided the spell is not of a school prohibited to you.
\par }{\cf0 \bullet  }{\fs20\cf0 Duplicate any other spell of 6th level or lower, provided the spell is not of a school prohibited to you.
\par }{\cf0 \bullet  }{\fs20\cf0 Duplicate any wizard or sorcerer spell of 7th level or lower even if it\rquote s of a prohibited school.
\par }{\cf0 \bullet  }{\fs20\cf0 Duplicate any other spell of 5th level or lower even if it\rquote s of a prohibited school. 
\par }{\cf0 \bullet  }{\fs20\cf0 Undo the harmful effects of many other spells, such as }{\i\fs20\cf0 geas/quest }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 insanity}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\cf0 \bullet  }{\fs20\cf0 Create a nonmagical item of up to 25,000 gp in value.
\par }{\cf0 \bullet  }{\fs20\cf0 Create a magic item, or add to the powers of an existing magic item.
\par }{\cf0 \bullet  }{\fs20\cf0 Grant a creature a +1 inherent bonus to an ability score. Two to five }{\i\fs20\cf0 wish }{\fs20\cf0 
spells cast in immediate succession can grant a creature a +2 to +5 inherent bonus to an ability score (two wishes for a +2 inherent bonus, three for a +3 inherent bonus, and so on). Inherent bonuses are instantaneous, so they cannot be dispelled. }{
\i\fs20\cf0 Note: }{\fs20\cf0 An inherent bonus may not exceed +5 for a single ability score, and inherent bonuses to a particular ability score do not stack, so only the best one applies.
\par }{\cf0 \bullet  }{\fs20\cf0 Remove injuries and afflictions. A single }{\i\fs20\cf0 wish }{\fs20\cf0 can aid one creature per caster level, and all subjects are cured of the same kind of affli
ction. For example, you could heal all the damage you and your companions have taken, or remove all poison effects from everyone in the party, but not do both with the same }{\i\fs20\cf0 wish}{\fs20\cf0 . A }{\i\fs20\cf0 wish }{\fs20\cf0 
can never restore the experience point loss from casting a spell or the level or Constitution loss from being raised from the dead.
\par }{\cf0 \bullet  }{\fs20\cf0 Revive the dead. A }{\i\fs20\cf0 wish }{\fs20\cf0 can bring a dead creature back to life by duplicating a }{\i\fs20\cf0 resurrection }{\fs20\cf0 spell. A }{\i\fs20\cf0 wish }{\fs20\cf0 
can revive a dead creature whose body has been destroyed, but the task takes two }{\i\fs20\cf0 wishes, }{\fs20\cf0 one to recreate the body and another to infuse the body with life again. A }{\i\fs20\cf0 wish }{\fs20\cf0 
cannot prevent a character who was brought back to life from losing an experience level.
\par }{\cf0 \bullet  }{\fs20\cf0 Transport travelers. A }{\i\fs20\cf0 wish }{\fs20\cf0 can lift one creature per caster level from anywhere 
on any plane and place those creatures anywhere else on any plane regardless of local conditions. An unwilling target gets a Will save to negate the effect, and spell resistance (if any) applies.
\par }{\cf0 \bullet  }{\fs20\cf0 Undo misfortune. A }{\i\fs20\cf0 wish }{\fs20\cf0 can undo a single recent event. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 wish }{\fs20\cf0 
forces a reroll of any roll made within the last round (including your last turn). Reality reshapes itself to accommodate the new result. For example, a }{\i\fs20\cf0 wish }{\fs20\cf0 could undo an opponent\rquote s successful save, a foe\rquote 
s successful critical hit (either the attack roll or the critical roll), a friend\rquote 
s failed save, and so on. The reroll, however, may be as bad as or worse than the original roll. An unwilling target gets a Will save to negate the effect, and spell resistance (if any) applies.
\par You may try to use a }{\i\fs20\cf0 wish }{\fs20\cf0 to produce greater effects than these, but doing so is dangerous. (The }{\i\fs20\cf0 wish }{\fs20\cf0 may pervert your intent into a literal but undesirable fulfillment or only a partial fulfillment.)

\par Duplicated spells allow saves and spell resistance as normal (but save DCs are for 9th-level spells).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 When a }{\i\fs20\cf0 wish }{\fs20\cf0 duplicates a spell with a material component that costs more than 10,000 gp, you must provide that component.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 XP Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 The minimum XP cost for casting }{\i\fs20\cf0 wish }{\fs20\cf0 is 5,000 XP. When a }{\i\fs20\cf0 wish }{\fs20\cf0 duplicates a spell that has an XP cost, you must pay 5,000 XP or that cost, whichever is more. When a }{
\i\fs20\cf0 wish }{\fs20\cf0 creates or improves a magic item, you must pay twice the normal XP cost for crafting or improving the item, plus an additional 5,000 XP.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Wood Shape
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Drd 2
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One touched piece of wood no larger than 10 cu. ft. + 1 cu. ft./level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (object)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (object)
\par W}{\i\fs20\cf0 ood shape }{\fs20\cf0 enables you to form one existing piece of wood into any shape that suits your purpose. While it is possible to make crude coffers, doors, and so forth, fine detail isn\rquote 
t possible. There is a 30% chance that any shape that includes moving parts simply doesn\rquote t work.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Word of Chaos
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Chaotic, Sonic]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Chaos 7, Clr 7
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  40 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  Nonchaotic creatures in a 40-ft.- radius spread centered on you
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None or Will negates; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par Any nonchaotic creature within the area who hears the }{\i\fs20\cf0 word of chaos }{\fs20\cf0 suffers the following ill effects.
\par The effects are cumulative and concurrent. No saving throw is allowed against these effects.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Deafened: }{\fs20\cf0 The creature is deafened for 1d4 rounds.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Stunned: }{\fs20\cf0 The creature is stunned for 1 round.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Confused: }{\fs20\cf0 The creature is }{\i\fs20\cf0 confused, }{\fs20\cf0 as by the }{\i\fs20\cf0 confusion }{\fs20\cf0 spell, for 1d10 minutes. This is a mind-affecting enchantment effect.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Killed: }{\fs20\cf0 Living creatures die. Undead creatures are destroyed.
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1863\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4934\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 HD}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect}{\b\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1863\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4934\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1863\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx4934\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Equal to caster level}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 Deafened}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1863\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4934\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Up to caster level \endash 1}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 Stunned, deafened}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1863\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4934\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Up to caster level \endash 5}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{
\i\fs20\cf0 Confused}{\fs20\cf0 , stunned, deafened}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1863\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4934\row }\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1863\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4934\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Up to caster level \endash 10}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 Killed, }{\i\fs20\cf0 confused}{\fs20\cf0 , stunned, deafened}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1863\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4934\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\cf0 
Furthermore, if you are on your home plane when you cast this spell, nonchaotic extraplanar creatures within the area are instantly banished back to their home planes. Creatures so banished cannot return for at least 24 hours. This effect takes place rega
rdless of whether the creatures hear the }{\i\fs20\cf0 word of chaos. }{\fs20\cf0 The banishment effect allows a Will save (at a \endash 4 penalty) to negate.
\par Creatures whose HD exceed your caster level are unaffected by }{\i\fs20\cf0 word of chaos.
\par }{\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Word of Recall
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Teleportation)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 6, Drd 8
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Unlimited
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  You and touched objects or other willing creatures
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None or Will negates (harmless, object)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No or Yes (harmless, object)
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Word of recall }{\fs20\cf0 
teleports you instantly back to your sanctuary when the word is uttered. You must designate the sanctuary when you prepare the spell, and it must be a very familiar place. The actual point of arrival is a designated area no larger than 10 f
eet by 10 feet. You can be transported any distance within a plane but cannot travel between planes. You can transport, in addition to yourself, any objects you carry, as long as their weight doesn\rquote 
t exceed your maximum load. You may also bring one additio
nal willing Medium or smaller creature (carrying gear or objects up to its maximum load) or its equivalent per three caster levels. A Large creature counts as two Medium creatures, a Huge creature counts as two Large creatures, and so forth. All creatures
 to be transported must be in contact with one another, and at least one of those creatures must be in contact with you. Exceeding this limit causes the spell to fail.
\par An unwilling creature can\rquote t be teleported by }{\i\fs20\cf0 word of recall. }{\fs20\cf0 Likewise, a creature\rquote s Will 
save (or spell resistance) prevents items in its possession from being teleported. Unattended, nonmagical objects receive no saving throw.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Zone of Silence
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Illusion (Glamer)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 4
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Personal
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  5-ft.-radius emanation centered on you
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 hour/level (D)
\par By casting }{\i\fs20\cf0 zone of silence}{\fs20\cf0 , you manipulate sound waves in your immediate vicinity so that you and those within the spell\rquote s area can converse normally, yet no one outside can hear your v
oices or any other noises from within, including language-dependent or sonic spell effects. This effect is centered on you and moves with you. Anyone who enters the zone immediately becomes subject to its effects, but those who leave are no longer affecte
d. Note, however, that a successful Spot check to read lips can still reveal what\rquote s said inside a }{\i\fs20\cf0 zone of silence.
\par }{\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Zone of Truth
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 2, Pal 2
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  20-ft.-radius emanation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 min./level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par Creatures within the emanation area (or those who enter it) can\rquote t speak any deliberate and intentional lies. Each potentially a
ffected creature is allowed a save to avoid the effects when the spell is cast or when the creature first enters the emanation area. Affected creatures are aware of this enchantment. Therefore, they may avoid answering questions to which they would normal
ly respond with a lie, or they may be evasive as long as they remain within the boundaries of the truth. Creatures who leave the area are free to speak as they choose.
\par }}