{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New{\*\falt Courier};}{\f53\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f54\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f56\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f57\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f58\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f59\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f60\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f69\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f70\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr{\*\falt Courier};}{\f72\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek{\*\falt Courier};}{\f73\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f74\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier};}{\f75\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic){\*\falt Courier};}{\f76\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic{\*\falt Courier};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext15 Body Text;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 
Preformatted;}}{\info{\title DRUID SPELLS}{\author AKSmith}{\operator asmith}{\creatim\yr2003\mo7\dy1\hr10\min23}{\revtim\yr2003\mo10\dy30\hr10\min34}{\version7}{\edmins8}{\nofpages14}{\nofwords5593}{\nofchars-32766}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}
{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8223}}\margl1080\margr1080\margt1080\margb1080 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1080\dgvorigin1080\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 
This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{\f0\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs36\cf0 SPELL LIST II
\par 
\par DRUID SPELLS
\par }{\cf0 0-LEVEL DRUID SPELLS (ORISONS)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Create Water:}{\fs20\cf0  Creates 2 gallons/level of pure water.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cure Minor Wounds:}{\fs20\cf0  Cures 1 point of damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Detect Magic:}{\fs20\cf0  Detects spells and magic items within 60 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Detect Poison:}{\fs20\cf0  Detects poison in one creature or object.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Flare:}{\fs20\cf0  Dazzles one creature (\endash 1 penalty on attack rolls).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Guidance:}{\fs20\cf0  +1 on one attack roll, saving throw, or skill check.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Know Direction:}{\fs20\cf0  You discern north.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Light:}{\fs20\cf0  Object shines like a torch.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Mending:}{\fs20\cf0  Makes minor repairs on an object.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Purify Food and Drink:}{\fs20\cf0  Purifies 1 cu. ft./level of food or water.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Read Magic:}{\fs20\cf0  Read scrolls and spellbooks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject gains +1 bonus on saving throws.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Virtue:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject gains 1 temporary hp.
\par }{\cf0 1ST-LEVEL DRUID SPELLS
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Calm Animals:}{\fs20\cf0  Calms (2d4 + level) HD of animals.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Charm Animal:}{\fs20\cf0  Makes one animal your friend.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cure Light Wounds:}{\fs20\cf0  Cures 1d8 damage +1/level (max +5).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Detect Animals or Plants:}{\fs20\cf0  Detects kinds of animals or plants.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Detect Snares and Pits:}{\fs20\cf0  Reveals natural or primitive traps.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Endure Elements:}{\fs20\cf0  Exist comfortably in hot or cold environments.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Entangle:}{\fs20\cf0  Plants entangle everyone in 40-ft.-radius.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Faerie Fire:}{\fs20\cf0  Outlines subjects with light, canceling }{\i\fs20\cf0 blur}{\fs20\cf0 , concealment, and the like.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Goodberry:}{\fs20\cf0  2d4 berries each cure 1 hp (max 8 hp/24 hours).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Hide from Animals:}{\fs20\cf0  Animals can\rquote t perceive one subject/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Jump:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject gets bonus on Jump checks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Longstrider:}{\fs20\cf0  Your speed increases by 10 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Magic Fang:}{\fs20\cf0  One natural weapon of subject creature gets +1 on attack and damage rolls.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Magic Stone:}{\fs20\cf0  Three stones gain +1 on attack rolls, deal 1d6+1 damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Obscuring Mist:}{\fs20\cf0  Fog surrounds you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Pass without Trace:}{\fs20\cf0  One subject/level leaves no tracks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Produce Flame:}{\fs20\cf0  1d6 damage +1/level, touch or thrown.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Shillelagh:}{\fs20\cf0  Cudgel or quarterstaff becomes +1 weapon (1d10 damage) for 1 min./level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Speak with Animals:}{\fs20\cf0  You can communicate with animals.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Nature\rquote s Ally I:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls creature to fight.
\par }{\cf0 2ND-LEVEL DRUID SPELLS
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Animal Messenger:}{\fs20\cf0  Sends a Tiny animal to a specific place.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Animal Trance:}{\fs20\cf0  Fascinates 2d6 HD of animals.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Barkskin:}{\fs20\cf0  Grants +2 (or higher) enhancement to natural armor.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bear\rquote s Endurance:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject gains +4 to Con for 1 min./level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bull\rquote s Strength:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject gains +4 to Str for 1 min./level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cat\rquote s Grace:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject gains +4 to Dex for 1 min./level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Chill Metal:}{\fs20\cf0  Cold metal damages those who touch it.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Delay Poison:}{\fs20\cf0  Stops poison from harming subject for 1 hour/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Fire Trap }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Opened object deals 1d4 +1/level damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Flame Blade:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch attack deals 1d8 +1/two levels damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Flaming Sphere:}{\fs20\cf0  Creates rolling ball of fire, 2d6 damage, lasts 1 round/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Fog Cloud:}{\fs20\cf0  Fog obscures vision.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Gust of Wind:}{\fs20\cf0  Blows away or knocks down smaller creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Heat Metal:}{\fs20\cf0  Make metal so hot it damages those who touch it.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Hold Animal:}{\fs20\cf0  Paralyzes one animal for 1 round/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Owl\rquote s Wisdom:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject gains +4 to Wis for 1 min./level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Reduce Animal:}{\fs20\cf0  Shrinks one willing animal.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Resist Energy:}{\fs20\cf0  Ignores 10 (or more) points of damage/attack from specified energy type.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Restoration, Lesser:}{\fs20\cf0  Dispels magical ability penalty or repairs 1d4 ability damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Soften Earth and Stone:}{\fs20\cf0  Turns stone to clay or dirt to sand or mud.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spider Climb:}{\fs20\cf0  Grants ability to walk on walls and ceilings.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Nature\rquote s Ally II:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls creature to fight.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Swarm:}{\fs20\cf0  Summons swarm of bats, rats, or spiders.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Tree Shape:}{\fs20\cf0  You look exactly like a tree for 1 hour/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Warp Wood:}{\fs20\cf0  Bends wood (shaft, handle, door, plank).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Wood Shape:}{\fs20\cf0  Rearranges wooden objects to suit you.
\par }{\cf0 3RD-LEVEL DRUID SPELLS
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Call Lightning:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls down lightning bolts (3d6 per bolt) from sky.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Contagion:}{\fs20\cf0  Infects subject with chosen disease.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cure Moderate Wounds:}{\fs20\cf0  Cures 2d8 damage +1/level (max +10).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Daylight:}{\fs20\cf0  60-ft. radius of bright light.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Diminish Plants:}{\fs20\cf0  Reduces size or blights growth of normal plants.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Dominate Animal:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject animal obeys silent mental commands.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Magic Fang, Greater:}{\fs20\cf0  One natural weapon of subject creature gets +1/four levels on attack and damage rolls (max +5).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Meld into Stone:}{\fs20\cf0  You and your gear merge with stone.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Neutralize Poison:}{\fs20\cf0  Immunizes subject against poison, detoxifies venom in or on subject.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Plant Growth:}{\fs20\cf0  Grows vegetation, improves crops.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Poison:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch deals 1d10 Con damage, repeats in 1 min.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Protection from Energy:}{\fs20\cf0  Absorb 12 points/level of damage from one kind of energy.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Quench:}{\fs20\cf0  Extinguishes nonmagical fires or one magic item.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Remove Disease:}{\fs20\cf0  Cures all diseases affecting subject.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Sleet Storm:}{\fs20\cf0  Hampers vision and movement.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Snare:}{\fs20\cf0  Creates a magic booby trap.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Speak with Plants:}{\fs20\cf0  You can talk to normal plants and plant creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spike Growth:}{\fs20\cf0  Creatures in area take 1d4 damage, may be }{\i\fs20\cf0 slowed.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Stone Shape:}{\fs20\cf0  Sculpts stone into any shape.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Nature\rquote s Ally III:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls creature to fight.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Water Breathing:}{\fs20\cf0  Subjects can breathe underwater.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Wind Wall:}{\fs20\cf0  Deflects arrows, smaller creatures, and gases.
\par }{\cf0 4TH-LEVEL DRUID SPELLS
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Air Walk:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject treads on air as if solid (climb at 45-degree angle).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Antiplant Shell:}{\fs20\cf0  Keeps animated plants at bay.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Blight:}{\fs20\cf0  Withers one plant or deals 1d6/level damage to plant creature.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Command Plants:}{\fs20\cf0  Sway the actions of one or more plant creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Control Water:}{\fs20\cf0  Raises or lowers bodies of water.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cure Serious Wounds:}{\fs20\cf0  Cures 3d8 damage +1/level (max +15).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Dispel Magic:}{\fs20\cf0  Cancels spells and magical effects.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Flame Strike:}{\fs20\cf0  Smite foes with divine fire (1d6/level damage).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Freedom of Movement:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject moves normally despite impediments.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Giant Vermin:}{\fs20\cf0  Turns centipedes, scorpions, or spiders into giant vermin.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Ice Storm:}{\fs20\cf0  Hail deals 5d6 damage in cylinder 40 ft. across.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Reincarnate:}{\fs20\cf0  Brings dead subject back in a random body.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Repel Vermin:}{\fs20\cf0  Insects, spiders, and other vermin stay 10 ft. away.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Rusting Grasp:}{\fs20\cf0  Your touch corrodes iron and alloys.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Scrying }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Spies on subject from a distance.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spike Stones:}{\fs20\cf0  Creatures in area take 1d8 damage, may be }{\i\fs20\cf0 slowed.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Nature\rquote s Ally IV:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls creature to fight.
\par }{\cf0 5TH-LEVEL DRUID SPELLS
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Animal Growth:}{\fs20\cf0  One animal/two levels doubles in size.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Atonement:}{\fs20\cf0  Removes burden of misdeeds from subject.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Awaken }{\b\fs20\cf0\super X}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Animal or tree gains human intellect.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Baleful Polymorph:}{\fs20\cf0  Transforms subject into harmless animal.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Call Lightning Storm:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 call lightning, }{\fs20\cf0 but 5d6 damage per bolt.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Commune with Nature:}{\fs20\cf0  Learn about terrain for 1 mile/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Control Winds:}{\fs20\cf0  Change wind direction and speed.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cure Critical Wounds:}{\fs20\cf0  Cures 4d8 damage +1/level (max +20).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Death Ward:}{\fs20\cf0  Grants immunity to all death spells and negative energy effects.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Hallow }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Designates location as holy.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Insect Plague:}{\fs20\cf0  Locust swarms attack creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Stoneskin }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Ignore 10 points of damage per attack.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Nature\rquote s Ally V:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls creature to fight.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Transmute Mud to Rock:}{\fs20\cf0  Transforms two 10-ft. cubes per level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Transmute Rock to Mud:}{\fs20\cf0  Transforms two 10-ft. cubes per level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Tree Stride:}{\fs20\cf0  Step from one tree to another far away.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Unhallow }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Designates location as unholy.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Wall of Fire:}{\fs20\cf0  Deals 2d4 fire damage out to 10 ft. and 1d4 out to 20 ft. Passing through wall deals 2d6 damage +1/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Wall of Thorns:}{\fs20\cf0  Thorns damage anyone who tries to pass.
\par }{\cf0 6TH-LEVEL DRUID SPELLS
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Antilife Shell:}{\fs20\cf0  10-ft.-radius field hedges out living creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bear\rquote s Endurance, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 bear\rquote s endurance}{\fs20\cf0 , affects one subject/ level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bull\rquote s Strength, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 bull\rquote s strength}{\fs20\cf0 , affects one subject/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cat\rquote s Grace, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 cat\rquote s grace}{\fs20\cf0 , affects one subject/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cure Light Wounds, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  Cures 1d8 damage +1/level for many creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Dispel Magic, Greater:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel magic, }{\fs20\cf0 but +20 on check.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Find the Path:}{\fs20\cf0  Shows most direct way to a location.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Fire Seeds:}{\fs20\cf0  Acorns and berries become grenades and bombs.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Ironwood:}{\fs20\cf0  Magic wood is strong as steel.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Liveoak:}{\fs20\cf0  Oak becomes treant guardian.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Move Earth:}{\fs20\cf0  Digs trenches and builds hills.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Owl\rquote s Wisdom, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 owl\rquote s wisdom}{\fs20\cf0 , affects one subject/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Repel Wood:}{\fs20\cf0  Pushes away wooden objects.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spellstaff:}{\fs20\cf0  Stores one spell in wooden quarterstaff.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Stone Tell:}{\fs20\cf0  Talk to natural or worked stone.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Nature\rquote s Ally VI:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls creature to fight.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Transport via Plants:}{\fs20\cf0  Move instantly from one plant to another of the same kind.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Wall of Stone:}{\fs20\cf0  Creates a stone wall that can be shaped.
\par }{\cf0 7TH-LEVEL DRUID SPELLS
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Animate Plants:}{\fs20\cf0  One or more plants animate and fight for you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Changestaff:}{\fs20\cf0  Your staff becomes a treant on command.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Control Weather:}{\fs20\cf0  Changes weather in local area.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Creeping Doom:}{\fs20\cf0  Swarms of centipedes attack at your command.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cure Moderate Wounds, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  Cures 2d8 damage +1/level for many creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Fire Storm:}{\fs20\cf0  Deals 1d6/level fire damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Heal:}{\fs20\cf0  Cures 10 points/level of damage, all diseases and mental conditions.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Scrying, Greater:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 scrying}{\fs20\cf0 , but faster and longer.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Nature\rquote s Ally VII:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls creature to fight.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Sunbeam:}{\fs20\cf0  Beam blinds and deals 4d6 damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Transmute Metal to Wood: }{\fs20\cf0 Metal within 40 ft. becomes wood.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 True Seeing }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Lets you see all things as they really are.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Wind Walk:}{\fs20\cf0  You and your allies turn vaporous and travel fast.
\par }{\cf0 8TH-LEVEL DRUID SPELLS
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Animal Shapes:}{\fs20\cf0  One ally/level polymorphs into chosen animal.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Control Plants:}{\fs20\cf0  Control actions of one or more plant creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cure Serious Wounds, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  Cures 3d8 damage +1/level for many creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Earthquake:}{\fs20\cf0  Intense tremor shakes 80-ft.-radius.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Finger of Death:}{\fs20\cf0  Kills one subject.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Repel Metal or Stone:}{\fs20\cf0  Pushes away metal and stone.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Reverse Gravity:}{\fs20\cf0  Objects and creatures fall upward.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Nature\rquote s Ally VIII:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls creature to fight.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Sunburst:}{\fs20\cf0  Blinds all within 10 ft., deals 6d6 damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Whirlwind:}{\fs20\cf0  Cyclone deals damage and can pick up creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Word of Recall:}{\fs20\cf0  Teleports you back to designated place.
\par }{\cf0 9TH-LEVEL DRUID SPELLS
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Antipathy:}{\fs20\cf0  Object or location affected by spell repels certain creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cure Critical Wounds, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  Cures 4d8 damage +1/level for many creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Elemental Swarm:}{\fs20\cf0  Summons multiple elementals.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Foresight:}{\fs20\cf0  \'93Sixth sense\'94 warns of impending danger.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Regenerate:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject\rquote s severed limbs grow back, cures 4d8 damage +1/level (max +35).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Shambler:}{\fs20\cf0  Summons 1d4+2 shambling mounds to fight for you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Shapechange }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Transforms you into any creature, and change forms once per round.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Storm of Vengeance:}{\fs20\cf0  Storm rains acid, lightning, and hail.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Nature\rquote s Ally IX:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls creature to fight.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Sympathy }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Object or location attracts certain creatures.
\par }{\fs36\cf0 
\par PALADIN SPELLS
\par }{\cf0 1ST-LEVEL PALADIN SPELLS
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bless:}{\fs20\cf0  Allies gain +1 on attack rolls and +1 on saves against fear.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bless Water:}{\fs20\cf0  Makes holy water.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bless Weapon:}{\fs20\cf0  Weapon strikes true against evil foes.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Create Water:}{\fs20\cf0  Creates 2 gallons/level of pure water.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cure Light Wounds:}{\fs20\cf0  Cures 1d8 damage +1/level (max +5).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Detect Poison:}{\fs20\cf0  Detects poison in one creature or small object.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Detect Undead:}{\fs20\cf0  Reveals undead within 60 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Divine Favor:}{\fs20\cf0  You gain +1 per three levels on attack and damage rolls.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Endure Elements:}{\fs20\cf0  Exist comfortably in hot or cold environments.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Magic Weapon:}{\fs20\cf0  Weapon gains +1 bonus.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Protection from Chaos/Evil:}{\fs20\cf0  +2 to AC and saves, counter mind control, hedge out elementals and outsiders.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Read Magic:}{\fs20\cf0  Read scrolls and spellbooks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject gains +1 on saving throws.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Restoration, Lesser:}{\fs20\cf0  Dispels magical ability penalty or repairs 1d4 ability damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Virtue:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject gains 1 temporary hp.
\par }{\cf0 2ND-LEVEL PALADIN SPELLS
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bull\rquote s Strength:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject gains +4 to Str for 1 min./level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Delay Poison:}{\fs20\cf0  Stops poison from harming subject for 1 hour/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Eagle\rquote s Splendor:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject gains +4 to Cha for 1 min./level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Owl\rquote s Wisdom:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject gains +4 to Wis for 1 min./level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Remove Paralysis:}{\fs20\cf0  Frees one or more creatures from paralysis or }{\i\fs20\cf0 slow }{\fs20\cf0 effect.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Resist Energy:}{\fs20\cf0  Ignores 10 (or more) points of damage/attack from specified energy type.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Shield Other }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  You take half of subject\rquote s damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Undetectable Alignment:}{\fs20\cf0  Conceals alignment for 24 hours.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Zone of Truth:}{\fs20\cf0  Subjects within range cannot lie.
\par }{\cf0 3RD-LEVEL PALADIN SPELLS
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cure Moderate Wounds:}{\fs20\cf0  Cures 2d8 damage +1/level (max +10).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Daylight:}{\fs20\cf0  60-ft. radius of bright light.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Discern Lies:}{\fs20\cf0  Reveals deliberate falsehoods.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Dispel Magic:}{\fs20\cf0  Cancels spells and magical effects.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Heal Mount:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 heal }{\fs20\cf0 on warhorse or other special mount.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Magic Circle against Chaos:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 protection from chaos}{\fs20\cf0 , but 10-ft. radius and 10 min./level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Magic Circle against Evil:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 protection from evil}{\fs20\cf0 , but 10-ft. radius and 10 min./level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Magic Weapon, Greater:}{\fs20\cf0  +1 bonus/four levels (max +5).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prayer:}{\fs20\cf0  Allies +1 bonus on most rolls, enemies \endash 1 penalty.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Remove Blindness/Deafness:}{\fs20\cf0  Cures normal or magical conditions.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Remove Curse:}{\fs20\cf0  Frees object or person from curse.
\par }{\cf0 4TH-LEVEL PALADIN SPELLS
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Break Enchantment:}{\fs20\cf0  Frees subjects from enchantments, alterations, curses, and petrification.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cure Serious Wounds:}{\fs20\cf0  Cures 3d8 damage +1/level (max +15).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Death Ward:}{\fs20\cf0  Grants immunity to death spells and negative energy effects.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Dispel Chaos:}{\fs20\cf0  +4 bonus against attacks by chaotic creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Dispel Evil:}{\fs20\cf0  +4 bonus against attacks by evil creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Holy Sword:}{\fs20\cf0  Weapon becomes +5, deals +2d6 damage against evil.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Mark of Justice:}{\fs20\cf0  Designates action that will trigger }{\i\fs20\cf0 curse }{\fs20\cf0 on subject.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Neutralize Poison:}{\fs20\cf0  Immunizes subject against poison, detoxifies venom in or on subject.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Restoration }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Restores level and ability score drains.
\par }{\fs36\cf0 
\par RANGER SPELLS
\par }{\cf0 1ST-LEVEL RANGER SPELLS
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Alarm:}{\fs20\cf0  Wards an area for 2 hours/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Animal Messenger:}{\fs20\cf0  Sends a Tiny animal to a specific place.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Calm Animals:}{\fs20\cf0  Calms (2d4 + level) HD of animals.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Charm Animal:}{\fs20\cf0  Makes one animal your friend.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Delay Poison:}{\fs20\cf0  Stops poison from harming subject for 1 hour/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Detect Animals or Plants:}{\fs20\cf0  Detects kinds of animals or plants.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Detect Poison:}{\fs20\cf0  Detects poison in one creature or object.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Detect Snares and Pits:}{\fs20\cf0  Reveals natural or primitive traps.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Endure Elements:}{\fs20\cf0  Exist comfortably in hot or cold environments.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Entangle:}{\fs20\cf0  Plants entangle everyone in 40-ft.-radius circle.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Hide from Animals:}{\fs20\cf0  Animals can\rquote t perceive one subject/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Jump:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject gets bonus on Jump checks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Longstrider:}{\fs20\cf0  Increases your speed.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Magic Fang:}{\fs20\cf0  One natural weapon of subject creature gets +1 on attack and damage rolls.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Pass without Trace:}{\fs20\cf0  One subject/level leaves no tracks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Read Magic:}{\fs20\cf0  Read scrolls and spellbooks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Resist Energy:}{\fs20\cf0  Ignores 10 (or more) points of damage/attack from specified energy type.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Speak with Animals:}{\fs20\cf0  You can communicate with animals.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Nature\rquote s Ally I:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls animal to fight for you.
\par }{\cf0 2ND-LEVEL RANGER SPELLS
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Barkskin:}{\fs20\cf0  Grants +2 (or higher) enhancement to natural armor.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bear\rquote s Endurance:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject gains +4 to Con for 1 min./level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cat\rquote s Grace:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject gains +4 to Dex for 1 min./level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cure Light Wounds:}{\fs20\cf0  Cures 1d8 damage +1/level (max +5).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Hold Animal:}{\fs20\cf0  Paralyzes one animal for 1 round/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Owl\rquote s Wisdom:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject gains +4 to Wis for 1 min./level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Protection from Energy:}{\fs20\cf0  Absorb 12 points/level of damage from one kind of energy.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Snare:}{\fs20\cf0  Creates a magic booby trap.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Speak with Plants:}{\fs20\cf0  You can talk to normal plants and plant creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spike Growth:}{\fs20\cf0  Creatures in area take 1d4 damage, may be }{\i\fs20\cf0 slowed.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Nature\rquote s Ally II:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls animal to fight for you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Wind Wall:}{\fs20\cf0  Deflects arrows, smaller creatures, and gases.
\par }{\cf0 3RD-LEVEL RANGER SPELLS
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Command Plants:}{\fs20\cf0  Sway the actions of one or more plant creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cure Moderate Wounds:}{\fs20\cf0  Cures 2d8 damage +1/level (max +10).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Darkvision:}{\fs20\cf0  See 60 ft. in total darkness.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Diminish Plants:}{\fs20\cf0  Reduces size or blights growth of normal plants.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Magic Fang, Greater:}{\fs20\cf0  One natural weapon of subject creature gets +1/three caster levels on attack and damage rolls (max +5).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Neutralize Poison:}{\fs20\cf0  Immunizes subject against poison, detoxifies venom in or on subject.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Plant Growth:}{\fs20\cf0  Grows vegetation, improves crops.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Reduce Animal:}{\fs20\cf0  Shrinks one willing animal.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Remove Disease:}{\fs20\cf0  Cures all diseases affecting subject.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Repel Vermin:}{\fs20\cf0  Insects, spiders, and other vermin stay 10 ft. away.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Nature\rquote s Ally III:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls animal to fight for you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Tree Shape:}{\fs20\cf0  You look exactly like a tree for 1 hour/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Water Walk:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject treads on water as if solid.
\par }{\cf0 4TH-LEVEL RANGER SPELLS
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Animal Growth:}{\fs20\cf0  One animal/two levels doubles in size.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Commune with Nature:}{\fs20\cf0  Learn about terrain for 1 mile/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cure Serious Wounds:}{\fs20\cf0  Cures 3d8 damage +1/level (max +15).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Freedom of Movement:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject moves normally despite impediments.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Nondetection }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Hides subject from divination, scrying.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Nature\rquote s Ally IV:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls animal to fight for you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Tree Stride:}{\fs20\cf0  Step from one tree to another far away.
\par }{\fs36\cf0 
\par SORCERER/WIZARD SPELLS
\par }{\cf0 0-LEVEL SORCERER/WIZARD SPELLS (CANTRIPS)
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjur
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject gains +1 on saving throws.
\par Conj
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Acid Splash:}{\fs20\cf0  Orb deals 1d3 acid damage.
\par Div
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Detect Poison:}{\fs20\cf0  Detects poison in one creature or small object.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Detect Magic:}{\fs20\cf0  Detects spells and magic items within 60 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Read Magic:}{\fs20\cf0  Read scrolls and spellbooks.
\par Ench
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Daze:}{\fs20\cf0  Humanoid creature of 4 HD or less loses next action.
\par Evoc
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Dancing Lights:}{\fs20\cf0  Creates torches or other lights.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Flare:}{\fs20\cf0  Dazzles one creature (\endash 1 on attack rolls).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Light:}{\fs20\cf0  Object shines like a torch.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Ray of Frost:}{\fs20\cf0  Ray deals 1d3 cold damage.
\par Illus
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Ghost Sound:}{\fs20\cf0  Figment sounds.
\par Necro
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Disrupt Undead:}{\fs20\cf0  Deals 1d6 damage to one undead.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Touch of Fatigue:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch attack fatigues target.
\par Trans
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Mage Hand:}{\fs20\cf0  5-pound telekinesis.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Mending:}{\fs20\cf0  Makes minor repairs on an object.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Message:}{\fs20\cf0  Whispered conversation at distance.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Open/Close:}{\fs20\cf0  Opens or closes small or light things.
\par Univ
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Arcane Mark:}{\fs20\cf0  Inscribes a personal rune (visible or invisible).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prestidigitation:}{\fs20\cf0  Performs minor tricks.
\par }{\cf0 1ST-LEVEL SORCERER/WIZARD SPELLS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjur
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Alarm:}{\fs20\cf0  Wards an area for 2 hours/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Endure Elements:}{\fs20\cf0  Exist comfortably in hot or cold environments.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Hold Portal:}{\fs20\cf0  Holds door shut.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Protection from Chaos/Evil/Good/Law:}{\fs20\cf0  +2 to AC and saves, counter mind control, hedge out elementals and outsiders.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Shield:}{\fs20\cf0  Invisible disc gives +4 to AC, blocks }{\i\fs20\cf0 magic missiles.
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conj
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Grease:}{\fs20\cf0  Makes 10-ft. square or one object slippery.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Mage Armor:}{\fs20\cf0  Gives subject +4 armor bonus.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Mount:}{\fs20\cf0  Summons riding horse for 2 hours/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Obscuring Mist:}{\fs20\cf0  Fog surrounds you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Monster I:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls extraplanar creature to fight for you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Unseen Servant:}{\fs20\cf0  Invisible force obeys your commands.
\par Div
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Comprehend Languages:}{\fs20\cf0  You understand all spoken and written languages.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Detect Secret Doors:}{\fs20\cf0  Reveals hidden doors within 60 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Detect Undead:}{\fs20\cf0  Reveals undead within 60 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Identify }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Determines properties of magic item.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 True Strike:}{\fs20\cf0  +20 on your next attack roll.
\par Ench
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Charm Person: }{\fs20\cf0 Makes one person your friend.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Hypnotism:}{\fs20\cf0  Fascinates 2d4 HD of creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Sleep:}{\fs20\cf0  Puts 4 HD of creatures into magical slumber.
\par Evoc
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Burning Hands:}{\fs20\cf0  1d4/level fire damage (max 5d4).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Floating Disk:}{\fs20\cf0  Creates 3-ft.-diameter horizontal disk that holds 100 lb./level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Magic Missile:}{\fs20\cf0  1d4+1 damage; +1 missile per two levels above 1st (max 5).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Shocking Grasp:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch delivers 1d6/level electricity damage (max 5d6).
\par Illus
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Color Spray:}{\fs20\cf0  Knocks unconscious, blinds, and/or stuns weak creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Disguise Self:}{\fs20\cf0  Changes your appearance.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Magic Aura:}{\fs20\cf0  Alters object\rquote s magic aura.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Silent Image:}{\fs20\cf0  Creates minor illusion of your design.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Ventriloquism:}{\fs20\cf0  Throws voice for 1 min./level.
\par Necro
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cause Fear:}{\fs20\cf0  One creature of 5 HD or less flees for 1d4 rounds.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Chill Touch:}{\fs20\cf0  One touch/level deals 1d6 damage and possibly 1 Str damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Ray of Enfeeblement:}{\fs20\cf0  Ray deals 1d6 +1 per two levels Str damage.
\par Trans
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Animate Rope: }{\fs20\cf0 Makes a rope move at your command.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Enlarge Person:}{\fs20\cf0  Humanoid creature doubles in size.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Erase: }{\fs20\cf0 Mundane or magical writing vanishes.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Expeditious Retreat:}{\fs20\cf0  Your speed increases by 30 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feather Fall:}{\fs20\cf0  Objects or creatures fall slowly.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Jump:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject gets bonus on Jump checks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Magic Weapon: }{\fs20\cf0 Weapon gains +1 bonus.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Reduce Person:}{\fs20\cf0  Humanoid creature halves in size.
\par }{\cf0 2ND-LEVEL SORCERER/WIZARD SPELLS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjur
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Arcane Lock }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Magically locks a portal or chest.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Obscure Object:}{\fs20\cf0  Masks object against scrying.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Protection from Arrows:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject immune to most ranged attacks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Resist Energy:}{\fs20\cf0  Ignores first 10 (or more) points of damage/attack from specified energy type.
\par Conj
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Acid Arrow:}{\fs20\cf0  Ranged touch attack; 2d4 damage for 1 round +1 round/three levels.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Fog Cloud:}{\fs20\cf0  Fog obscures vision.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Glitterdust:}{\fs20\cf0  Blinds creatures, outlines invisible creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Monster II:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls extraplanar creature to fight for you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Swarm:}{\fs20\cf0  Summons swarm of bats, rats, or spiders.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Web:}{\fs20\cf0  Fills 20-ft.-radius spread with sticky spiderwebs.
\par Div
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Detect Thoughts:}{\fs20\cf0  Allows \'93listening\'94 to surface thoughts.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Locate Object:}{\fs20\cf0  Senses direction toward object (specific or type).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 See Invisibility:}{\fs20\cf0  Reveals invisible creatures or objects.
\par Ench
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Daze Monster:}{\fs20\cf0  Living creature of 6 HD or less loses next action.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Hideous Laughter:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject loses actions for 1 round/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Touch of Idiocy:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject takes 1d6 points of Int, Wis, and Cha damage.
\par Evoc
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Continual Flame }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Makes a permanent, heatless torch.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Darkness:}{\fs20\cf0  20-ft. radius of supernatural shadow.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Flaming Sphere:}{\fs20\cf0  Creates rolling ball of fire, 2d6 damage, lasts 1 round/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Gust of Wind:}{\fs20\cf0  Blows away or knocks down smaller creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Scorching Ray:}{\fs20\cf0  Ranged touch attack deals 4d6 fire damage, +1 ray/four levels (max 3).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Shatter:}{\fs20\cf0  Sonic vibration damages objects or crystalline creatures.
\par Illus
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Blur:}{\fs20\cf0  Attacks miss subject 20% of the time.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Hypnotic Pattern:}{\fs20\cf0  Fascinates (2d4 + level) HD of creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Invisibility:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject is invisible for 1 min./level or until it attacks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Magic Mouth }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Speaks once when triggered.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Minor Image:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 silent image}{\fs20\cf0 , plus some sound.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Mirror Image:}{\fs20\cf0  Creates decoy duplicates of you (1d4 +1 per three levels, max 8).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Misdirection:}{\fs20\cf0  Misleads divinations for one creature or object.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Phantom Trap }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 : }{\fs20\cf0 Makes item seem trapped.
\par Necro
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Blindness/Deafness:}{\fs20\cf0  Makes subject blinded or deafened.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Command Undead:}{\fs20\cf0  Undead creature obeys your commands.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 False Life:}{\fs20\cf0  Gain 1d10 temporary hp +1/level (max +10).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Ghoul Touch:}{\fs20\cf0  Paralyzes one subject, which exudes stEnch
\par that makes those nearby sickened.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Scare:}{\fs20\cf0  Panics creatures of less than 6 HD.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spectral Hand:}{\fs20\cf0  Creates disembodied glowing hand to deliver touch attacks.
\par Trans
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Alter Self:}{\fs20\cf0  Assume form of a similar creature.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bear\rquote s Endurance:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject gains +4 to Con for 1 min./level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bull\rquote s Strength:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject gains +4 to Str for 1 min./level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cat\rquote s Grace:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject gains +4 to Dex for 1 min./level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Darkvision:}{\fs20\cf0  See 60 ft. in total darkness.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Eagle\rquote s Splendor:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject gains +4 to Cha for 1 min./level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Fox\rquote s Cunning:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject gains +4 Int for 1 min./level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Knock:}{\fs20\cf0  Opens locked or magically sealed door.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Levitate:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject moves up and down at your direction.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Owl\rquote s Wisdom:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject gains +4 to Wis for 1 min./level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Pyrotechnics:}{\fs20\cf0  Turns fire into blinding light or choking smoke.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Rope Trick:}{\fs20\cf0  As many as eight creatures hide in extradimensional space.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spider Climb:}{\fs20\cf0  Grants ability to walk on walls and ceilings.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Whispering Wind:}{\fs20\cf0  Sends a short message 1 mile/level.
\par }{\cf0 3RD-LEVEL SORCERER/WIZARD SPELLS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjur
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Dispel Magic:}{\fs20\cf0  Cancels magical spells and effects.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Explosive Runes:}{\fs20\cf0  Deals 6d6 damage when read.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Magic Circle against Chaos/Evil/Good/Law:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 protection }{\fs20\cf0 spells, but 10-ft. radius and 10 min./level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Nondetection }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Hides subject from divination, scrying.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Protection from Energy:}{\fs20\cf0  Absorb 12 points/level of damage from one kind of energy.
\par Conj
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Phantom Steed:}{\fs20\cf0  Magic horse appears for 1 hour/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Sepia Snake Sigil }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Creates text symbol that immobilizes reader.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Sleet Storm:}{\fs20\cf0  Hampers vision and movement.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Stinking Cloud:}{\fs20\cf0  Nauseating vapors, 1 round/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Monster III:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls extraplanar creature to fight for you.
\par Div
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Arcane Sight:}{\fs20\cf0  Magical auras become visible to you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Clairaudience/Clairvoyance:}{\fs20\cf0  Hear or see at a distance for 1 min./level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Tongues:}{\fs20\cf0  Speak any language.
\par Ench
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Deep Slumber:}{\fs20\cf0  Puts 10 HD of creatures to sleep.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Heroism:}{\fs20\cf0  Gives +2 bonus on attack rolls, saves, skill checks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Hold Person:}{\fs20\cf0  Paralyzes one humanoid for 1 round/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Rage:}{\fs20\cf0  Subjects gains +2 to Str and Con, +1 on Will saves, \endash 2 to AC.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Suggestion:}{\fs20\cf0  Compels subject to follow stated course of action.
\par Evoc
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Daylight:}{\fs20\cf0  60-ft. radius of bright light.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Fireball:}{\fs20\cf0  1d6 damage per level, 20-ft. radius.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Lightning Bolt:}{\fs20\cf0  Electricity deals 1d6/level damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Tiny Hut:}{\fs20\cf0  Creates shelter for ten creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Wind Wall:}{\fs20\cf0  Deflects arrows, smaller creatures, and gases.
\par Illus
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Displacement:}{\fs20\cf0  Attacks miss subject 50%.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Illusory Script }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Only intended reader can decipher.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Invisibility Sphere:}{\fs20\cf0  Makes everyone within 10 ft. invisible.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Major Image:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 silent image}{\fs20\cf0 , plus sound, smell and thermal effects.
\par Necro
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Gentle Repose:}{\fs20\cf0  Preserves one corpse.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Halt Undead:}{\fs20\cf0  Immobilizes undead for 1 round/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Ray of Exhaustion:}{\fs20\cf0  Ray makes subject exhausted.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Vampiric Touch:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch deals 1d6/two levels damage; caster gains damage as hp.
\par Trans
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Blink:}{\fs20\cf0  You randomly vanish and reappear for 1 round/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Flame Arrow:}{\fs20\cf0  Arrows deal +1d6 fire damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Fly:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject flies at speed of 60 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Gaseous Form:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject becomes insubstantial and can fly slowly.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Haste:}{\fs20\cf0  One creature/level moves faster, +1 on attack rolls, AC, and Reflex saves.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Keen Edge:}{\fs20\cf0  Doubles normal weapon\rquote s threat range.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Magic Weapon, Greater:}{\fs20\cf0  +1/four levels (max +5).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Secret Page:}{\fs20\cf0  Changes one page to hide its real content.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Shrink Item:}{\fs20\cf0  Object shrinks to one-sixteenth size.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Slow:}{\fs20\cf0  One subject/level takes only one action/round, \endash 1 to AC, reflex saves, and attack rolls.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Water Breathing:}{\fs20\cf0  Subjects can breathe underwater.
\par }{\cf0 4TH-LEVEL SORCERER/WIZARD SPELLS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjur
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Dimensional Anchor:}{\fs20\cf0  Bars extradimensional movement.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Fire Trap }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Opened object deals 1d4 damage +1/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Globe of Invulnerability, Lesser:}{\fs20\cf0  Stops 1st- through 3rd-level spell effects.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Remove Curse:}{\fs20\cf0  Frees object or person from curse.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Stoneskin }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Ignore 10 points of damage per attack.
\par Conj
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Black Tentacles:}{\fs20\cf0  Tentacles grapple all within 20 ft. spread.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Dimension Door:}{\fs20\cf0  Teleports you short distance.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Minor Creation:}{\fs20\cf0  Creates one cloth or wood object.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Secure Shelter:}{\fs20\cf0  Creates sturdy cottage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Solid Fog:}{\fs20\cf0  Blocks vision and slows movement.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Monster IV:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls extraplanar creature to fight for you.
\par Div
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Arcane Eye:}{\fs20\cf0  Invisible floating eye moves 30 ft./round.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Detect Scrying:}{\fs20\cf0  Alerts you of magical eavesdropping.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Locate Creature:}{\fs20\cf0  Indicates direction to familiar creature.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Scrying }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Spies on subject from a distance.
\par Ench
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Charm Monster:}{\fs20\cf0 Makes monster believe it is your ally.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Confusion:}{\fs20\cf0  Subjects behave oddly for 1 round/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Crushing Despair:}{\fs20\cf0  Subjects take \endash 2 on attack rolls, damage rolls, saves, and checks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Geas, Lesser:}{\fs20\cf0  Commands subject of 7 HD or less.
\par Evoc
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Fire Shield:}{\fs20\cf0  Creatures attacking you take fire damage; you\rquote re protected from heat or cold.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Ice Storm:}{\fs20\cf0  Hail deals 5d6 damage in cylinder 40 ft. across.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Resilient Sphere:}{\fs20\cf0  Force globe protects but traps one subject.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Shout:}{\fs20\cf0  Deafens all within cone and deals 5d6 sonic damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Wall of Fire:}{\fs20\cf0  Deals 2d4 fire damage out to 10 ft. and 1d4 out to 20 ft. Passing through wall deals 2d6 damage +1/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Wall of Ice:}{\fs20\cf0  }{\i\fs20\cf0 Ice plane }{\fs20\cf0 creates wall with 15 hp +1/level, or }{\i\fs20\cf0 hemisphere }{\fs20\cf0 can trap creatures inside.
\par Illus
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Hallucinatory Terrain:}{\fs20\cf0  Makes one type of terrain appear like another (field into forest, or the like).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Illusory Wall:}{\fs20\cf0  Wall, floor, or ceiling looks real, but anything can pass through.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Invisibility, Greater:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 invisibility, }{\fs20\cf0 but subject can attack and stay invisible.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Phantasmal Killer:}{\fs20\cf0  Fearsome illusion kills subject or deals 3d6 damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Rainbow Pattern:}{\fs20\cf0  Lights fascinate 24 HD of creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Shadow Conjuration:}{\fs20\cf0  Mimics conjuration below 4th level, but only 20% real.
\par Necro
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Animate Dead }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Creates undead skeletons and zombies.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bestow Curse:}{\fs20\cf0  \endash 6 to an ability score; \endash 4 on attack rolls, saves, and checks; or 50% chance of losing each action.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Contagion:}{\fs20\cf0  Infects subject with chosen disease.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Enervation:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject gains 1d4 negative levels.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Fear:}{\fs20\cf0  Subjects within cone flee for 1 round/level.
\par Trans
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Enlarge Person, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  Enlarges several creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Mnemonic Enhancer }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  }{\i\fs20\cf0 Wizard only. }{\fs20\cf0 Prepares extra spells or retains one just cast.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Polymorph:}{\fs20\cf0  Gives one willing subject a new form.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Reduce Person, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  Reduces several creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Stone Shape:}{\fs20\cf0  Sculpts stone into any shape.
\par }{\cf0 5TH-LEVEL SORCERER/WIZARD SPELLS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjur
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Break Enchantment:}{\fs20\cf0  Frees subjects from enchantments, alterations, curses, and petrification.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Dismissal:}{\fs20\cf0  Forces a creature to return to native plane.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Mage\rquote s Private Sanctum:}{\fs20\cf0  Prevents anyone from viewing or scrying an area for 24 hours.
\par Conj
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cloudkill:}{\fs20\cf0  Kills 3 HD or less; 4\endash 6 HD save or die, 6+ HD take Con damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Mage\rquote s Faithful Hound:}{\fs20\cf0  Phantom dog can guard, attack.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Major Creation:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 minor creation, }{\fs20\cf0 plus stone and metal.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Planar Binding, Lesser:}{\fs20\cf0  Traps extraplanar creature of 6 HD or less until it performs a task.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Secret Chest }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Hides expensive chest on Ethereal Plane; you retrieve it at will.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Monster V:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls extraplanar creature to fight for you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Teleport:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantly transports you as far as 100 miles/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Wall of Stone:}{\fs20\cf0  Creates a stone wall that can be shaped.
\par Div
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Contact Other Plane:}{\fs20\cf0  Lets you ask question of extraplanar entity.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prying Eyes:}{\fs20\cf0  1d4 +1/level floating eyes scout for you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Telepathic Bond:}{\fs20\cf0  Link lets allies communicate.
\par Ench
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Dominate Person:}{\fs20\cf0  Controls humanoid telepathically.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feeblemind:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject\rquote s Int and Cha drop to 1.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Hold Monster:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 hold person}{\fs20\cf0 , but any creature.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Mind Fog:}{\fs20\cf0  Subjects in fog get \endash 10 to Wis and Will checks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Symbol of Sleep }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Triggered rune puts nearby creatures into catatonic slumber.
\par Evoc
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cone of Cold:}{\fs20\cf0  1d6/level cold damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Interposing Hand:}{\fs20\cf0  Hand provides cover against one opponent.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Sending:}{\fs20\cf0  Delivers short message anywhere, instantly.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Wall of Force:}{\fs20\cf0 Wall is immune to damage.
\par Illus
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Dream:}{\fs20\cf0  Sends message to anyone sleeping.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 False Vision }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Fools scrying with an illusion.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Mirage Arcana:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 hallucinatory terrain, }{\fs20\cf0 plus structures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Nightmare:}{\fs20\cf0  Sends vision dealing 1d10 damage, fatigue.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Persistent Image:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 major image}{\fs20\cf0 , but no concentration required.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Seeming:}{\fs20\cf0  Changes appearance of one person per two levels.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Shadow Evocation:}{\fs20\cf0  Mimics evocation below 5th level, but only 20% real.
\par Necro
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Blight:}{\fs20\cf0  Withers one plant or deals 1d6/level damage to plant creature.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Magic Jar }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Enables possession of another creature.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Symbol of Pain }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Triggered rune wracks nearby creatures with pain.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Waves of Fatigue:}{\fs20\cf0  Several targets become fatigued.
\par Trans
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Animal Growth:}{\fs20\cf0  One animal/two levels doubles in size.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Baleful Polymorph:}{\fs20\cf0  Transforms subject into harmless animal.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Fabricate:}{\fs20\cf0  Transforms raw materials into finished items.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Overland Flight:}{\fs20\cf0  You fly at a speed of 40 ft. and can hustle over long distances.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Passwall:}{\fs20\cf0  Creates passage through wood or stone wall.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Telekinesis:}{\fs20\cf0  Moves object, attacks creature, or hurls object or creature.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Transmute Mud to Rock:}{\fs20\cf0  Transforms two 10-ft. cubes per level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Transmute Rock to Mud:}{\fs20\cf0  Transforms two 10-ft. cubes per level.
\par Univ
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Permanency }{\b\fs20\cf0\super X}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0 Makes certain spells permanent.
\par }{\cf0 6TH-LEVEL SORCERER/WIZARD SPELLS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjur
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Antimagic Field:}{\fs20\cf0  Negates magic within 10 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Dispel Magic, Greater:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel magic, }{\fs20\cf0 but +20 on check.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Globe of Invulnerability:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 lesser globe of invulnerability}{\fs20\cf0 , plus 4th-level spell effects.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Guards and Wards:}{\fs20\cf0  Array of magic effects protect area.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Repulsion:}{\fs20\cf0  Creatures can\rquote t approach you.
\par Conj
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Acid Fog:}{\fs20\cf0  Fog deals acid damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Planar Binding:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 lesser planar binding, }{\fs20\cf0 but up to 12 HD.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Monster VI:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls extraplanar creature to fight for you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Wall of Iron }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  30 hp/four levels; can topple onto foes.
\par Div
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Analyze Dweomer }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Reveals magical aspects of subject.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Legend Lore }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs12\cf0  }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Lets you learn tales about a person, place, or thing.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 True Seeing }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Lets you see all things as they really are.
\par Ench
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Geas/Quest:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 lesser geas, }{\fs20\cf0 plus it affects any creature.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Heroism, Greater:}{\fs20\cf0  Gives +4 bonus on attack rolls, saves, skill checks; immunity to fear; temporary hp.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Suggestion, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 suggestion, }{\fs20\cf0 plus one subject/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Symbol of Persuasion }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Triggered rune charms nearby creatures.
\par Evoc
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Chain Lightning:}{\fs20\cf0  1d6/level damage; 1 secondary bolt/level each deals half damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Contingency }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Sets trigger condition for another spell.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Forceful Hand:}{\fs20\cf0  Hand pushes creatures away.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Freezing Sphere:}{\fs20\cf0  Freezes water or deals cold damage.
\par Illus
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Mislead:}{\fs20\cf0  Turns you invisible and creates illusory double.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Permanent Image:}{\fs20\cf0  Includes sight, sound, and smell.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Programmed Image }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 major image}{\fs20\cf0 , plus triggered by event.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Shadow Walk:}{\fs20\cf0  Step into shadow to travel rapidly.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Veil:}{\fs20\cf0  Changes appearance of group of creatures.
\par Necro
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Circle of Death }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Kills 1d4/level HD of creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Create Undead }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Creates ghouls, ghasts, mummies, or mohrgs.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Eyebite:}{\fs20\cf0  Target becomes panicked, sickened, and comatose.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Symbol of Fear }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Triggered rune panics nearby creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Undeath to Death }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Destroys 1d4/level HD of undead (max 20d4).
\par Trans
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bear\rquote s Endurance, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 bear\rquote s endurance}{\fs20\cf0 , affects one subject/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bull\rquote s Strength, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 bull\rquote s strength}{\fs20\cf0 , affects one subject/ level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cat\rquote s Grace, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 cat\rquote s grace}{\fs20\cf0 , affects one subject/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Control Water:}{\fs20\cf0  Raises or lowers bodies of water.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Disintegrate:}{\fs20\cf0 Makes one creature or object vanish.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Eagle\rquote s Splendor, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 eagle\rquote s splendor}{\fs20\cf0 , affects one subject/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Flesh to Stone:}{\fs20\cf0  Turns subject creature into statue.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Fox\rquote s Cunning, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 fox\rquote s cunning}{\fs20\cf0 , affects one subject/ level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Mage\rquote s Lucubration:}{\fs20\cf0  }{\i\fs20\cf0 Wizard only. }{\fs20\cf0 Recalls spell of 5th level or lower.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Move Earth:}{\fs20\cf0  Digs trenches and build hills.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Owl\rquote s Wisdom, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 owl\rquote s wisdom}{\fs20\cf0 , affects one subject/ level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Stone to Flesh:}{\fs20\cf0  Restores petrified creature.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Transformation }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  You gain combat bonuses.
\par }{\cf0 7TH-LEVEL SORCERER/WIZARD SPELLS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjur
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Banishment:}{\fs20\cf0  Banishes 2 HD/level of extraplanar creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Sequester:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject is invisible to sight and scrying; renders creature comatose.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Turning:}{\fs20\cf0  Reflect 1d4+6 spell levels back at caster.
\par Conj
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Instant Summons }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Prepared object appears in your hand.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Mage\rquote s Magnificent Mansion }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Door leads to extradimensional mansion.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Phase Door:}{\fs20\cf0  Creates an invisible passage through wood or stone.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Plane Shift }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  As many as eight subjects travel to another plane.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Monster VII:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls extraplanar creature to fight for you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Teleport, Greater:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 teleport, }{\fs20\cf0 but no range limit and no off-target arrival.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Teleport Object:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 teleport, }{\fs20\cf0 but affects a touched object.
\par Div
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Arcane Sight, Greater:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 arcane sight}{\fs20\cf0 , but also reveals magic effects on creatures and objects.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Scrying, Greater:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 scrying}{\fs20\cf0 , but faster and longer.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Vision }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs12\cf0  }{\b\fs20\cf0\super X}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 legend lore}{\fs20\cf0 , but quicker and strenuous.
\par Ench
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Hold Person, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 hold person}{\fs20\cf0 , but all within 30 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Insanity:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject suffers continuous }{\i\fs20\cf0 confusion}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Power Word Blind:}{\fs20\cf0  Blinds creature with 200 hp or less.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Symbol of Stunning }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Triggered rune stuns nearby creatures.
\par Evoc
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Delayed Blast Fireball:}{\fs20\cf0  1d6/level fire damage; you can postpone blast for 5 rounds.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Forcecage }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Cube or cage of force imprisons all inside.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Grasping Hand:}{\fs20\cf0  Hand provides cover, pushes, or grapples.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Mage\rquote s Sword }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Floating magic blade strikes opponents.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prismatic Spray:}{\fs20\cf0  Rays hit subjects with variety of effects.
\par Illus
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Invisibility, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 invisibility}{\fs20\cf0 , but affects all in range.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Project Image:}{\fs20\cf0  Illusory double can talk and cast spells.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Shadow Conjuration, Greater:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 shadow conjuration, }{\fs20\cf0 but up to 6th level and 60% real.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Simulacrum }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs12\cf0  }{\b\fs20\cf0\super X}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Creates partially real double of a creature.
\par Necro
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Control Undead:}{\fs20\cf0  Undead don\rquote t attack you while under your command.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Finger of Death:}{\fs20\cf0  Kills one subject.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Symbol of Weakness }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Triggered rune weakens nearby creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Waves of Exhaustion:}{\fs20\cf0  Several targets become exhausted.
\par Trans
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Control Weather:}{\fs20\cf0  Changes weather in local area.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Ethereal Jaunt:}{\fs20\cf0  You become ethereal for 1 round/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Reverse Gravity:}{\fs20\cf0  Objects and creatures fall upward.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Statue:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject can become a statue at will.
\par Univ
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Limited Wish }{\b\fs20\cf0\super X}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Alters reality\emdash within spell limits.
\par }{\cf0 8TH-LEVEL SORCERER/WIZARD SPELLS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjur
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Dimensional Lock:}{\fs20\cf0  Teleportation and interplanar travel blocked for one day/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Mind Blank:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject is immune to mental/emotional magic and scrying.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prismatic Wall: }{\fs20\cf0 Wall\rquote s colors have array of effects.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Protection from Spells }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs12\cf0  }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Confers +8 resistance bonus.
\par Conj
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Incendiary Cloud:}{\fs20\cf0  Cloud deals 4d6 fire damage/round.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Maze:}{\fs20\cf0  Traps subject in extradimensional maze.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Planar Binding, Greater:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 lesser planar binding, }{\fs20\cf0 but up to 18 HD.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Monster VIII:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls extraplanar creature to fight for you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Trap the Soul }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs12\cf0  }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Imprisons subject within gem.
\par Div
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Discern Location:}{\fs20\cf0  Reveals exact location of creature or object.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Moment of Prescience:}{\fs20\cf0  You gain insight bonus on single attack roll, check, or save.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prying Eyes, Greater:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 prying eyes}{\fs20\cf0 , but eyes have }{\i\fs20\cf0 true seeing}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par Ench
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Antipathy:}{\fs20\cf0  Object or location affected by spell repels certain creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Binding }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Utilizes an array of techniques to imprison a creature.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Charm Monster, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 charm monster, }{\fs20\cf0 but all within 30 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Demand:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 sending, }{\fs20\cf0 plus you can send }{\i\fs20\cf0 suggestion.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Irresistible Dance:}{\fs20\cf0  Forces subject to dance.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Power Word Stun:}{\fs20\cf0  Stuns creature with 150 hp or less.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Symbol of Insanity }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Triggered rune renders nearby creatures insane.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Sympathy }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Object or location attracts certain creatures.
\par Evoc
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Clenched Fist:}{\fs20\cf0  Large hand provides cover, pushes, or attacks your foes.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Polar Ray:}{\fs20\cf0  Ranged touch attack deals 1d6/level cold damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Shout, Greater:}{\fs20\cf0  Devastating yell deals 10d6 sonic damage; stuns creatures, damages objects.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Sunburst:}{\fs20\cf0  Blinds all within 10 ft., deals 6d6 damage.
\par Illus
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Scintillating Pattern:}{\fs20\cf0  Twisting colors }{\i\fs20\cf0 confuse, }{\fs20\cf0 stun, or render unconscious.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Screen:}{\fs20\cf0  Illusion hides area from vision, scrying.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Shadow Evocation, Greater:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 shadow evocation, }{\fs20\cf0 but up to 7th level and 60% real.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Telekinetic Sphere:}{\fs20\cf0  As}{\i\fs20\cf0  resilient sphere, }{\fs20\cf0 but you move sphere telekinetically.
\par Necro
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Clone }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs12\cf0  }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Duplicate awakens when original dies.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Create Greater Undead }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Create shadows, wraiths, spectres, or devourers.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Horrid Wilting:}{\fs20\cf0  Deals 1d6/level damage within 30 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Symbol of Death }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Triggered rune slays nearby creatures.
\par Trans
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Iron Body:}{\fs20\cf0  Your body becomes living iron.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Polymorph Any Object:}{\fs20\cf0  Changes any subject into anything else.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Temporal Stasis }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Puts subject into suspended animation.
\par }{\cf0 9TH-LEVEL SORCERER/WIZARD SPELLS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjur
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Freedom:}{\fs20\cf0  Releases creature from }{\i\fs20\cf0 imprisonment.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Imprisonment:}{\fs20\cf0  Entombs subject beneath the earth.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Mage\rquote s Disjunction:}{\fs20\cf0  Dispels magic, disenchants magic items.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prismatic Sphere:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 prismatic wall}{\fs20\cf0 , but surrounds on all sides.
\par Conj
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Gate }{\b\fs20\cf0\super X}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Connects two planes for travel or summoning.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Refuge }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Alters item to transport its possessor to you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Monster IX:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls extraplanar creature to fight for you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Teleportation Circle }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Circle teleports any creature inside to designated spot.
\par Div
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Foresight:}{\fs20\cf0  \'93Sixth sense\'94 warns of impending danger.
\par Ench
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Dominate Monster:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 dominate person, }{\fs20\cf0 but any creature.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Hold Monster, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 hold monster, }{\fs20\cf0 but all within 30 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Power Word Kill:}{\fs20\cf0  Kills one creature with 100 hp or less.
\par Evoc
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Crushing Hand:}{\fs20\cf0  Large hand provides cover, pushes, or crushes your foes.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Meteor Swarm:}{\fs20\cf0  Four exploding spheres each deal 6d6 fire damage.
\par Illus
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Shades:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 shadow conjuration}{\fs20\cf0 , but up to 8th level and 80% real.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Weird:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 phantasmal killer, }{\fs20\cf0 but affects all within 30 ft.
\par Necro
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Astral Projection }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Projects you and companions onto Astral Plane.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Energy Drain:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject gains 2d4 negative levels.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Soul Bind }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Traps newly dead soul to prevent }{\i\fs20\cf0 resurrection}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Wail of the Banshee:}{\fs20\cf0  Kills one creature/level.
\par Trans
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Etherealness:}{\fs20\cf0  Travel to Ethereal Plane with companions.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Shapechange }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Transforms you into any creature, and change forms once per round.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Time Stop:}{\fs20\cf0  You act freely for 1d4+1 rounds.
\par Univ
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Wish }{\b\fs20\cf0\super X}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 limited wish, }{\fs20\cf0 but with fewer limits.}{\cf0 
\par }}