{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New{\*\falt Courier};}{\f32\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f33\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f35\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f36\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f37\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f38\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f39\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f48\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f49\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr{\*\falt Courier};}{\f51\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek{\*\falt Courier};}{\f52\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f53\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier};}{\f54\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic){\*\falt Courier};}{\f55\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic{\*\falt Courier};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\qr \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{
\s4\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 4;}{\s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel4\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\i\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 5;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext15 Body Text;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Body Text 2;}{\s17\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar
\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 Preformatted;}}{\info{\title Fabricate}{\author AKSmith}
{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2003\mo7\dy1\hr14\min1}{\revtim\yr2003\mo10\dy22\hr13\min17}{\version4}{\edmins1}{\nofpages19}{\nofwords9101}{\nofchars51877}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws63708}{\vern8203}}
\margl1080\margr1080\margt1080\margb1080 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace120\dgvspace180\dghorigin1080\dgvorigin1080\dghshow2\dgvshow2
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 
This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{\f0\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs36\cf0 SPELLS (F-G)
\par }{\cf0 
\par Fabricate
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 5
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  See text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Up to 10 cu. ft./level; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par You convert material of one sort into a product that is of the same material. Creatures or magic items cannot be created or transmuted by the }{\i\fs20\cf0 fabricate }{\fs20\cf0 spell. The quality of items made by this spell is commensurate w
ith the quality of material used as the basis for the new fabrication. If you work with a mineral, the target is reduced to 1 cubic foot per level instead of 10 cubic feet.
\par You must make an appropriate Craft check to fabricate articles requiring a high degree of craftsmanship.
\par Casting requires 1 round per 10 cubic feet (or 1 cubic foot) of material to be affected by the spell.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 The original material, which costs the same amount as the raw materials required to craft the item to be created.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Faerie Fire
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Light]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Drd 1
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  Creatures and objects within a 5-ft.-radius burst
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 min./level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par A pale glow surrounds and outlines the subjects. Outlined subjects shed light as candles. Outlined creatures do not benefit from the concealment normally provided by darkness (though a 2nd-level or higher magical }{\i\fs20\cf0 darkness }{\fs20\cf0 
effect functions normally), }{\i\fs20\cf0 blur}{\fs20\cf0 , displacement, invisibility, or similar effects. The light is too dim to have any special effect on undead or dark-dwelling creatures vulnerable to light. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 faerie fire }{
\fs20\cf0 can be blue, green, or violet, according to your choice at the time of casting. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 faerie fire }{\fs20\cf0 does not cause any harm to the objects or creatures thus outlined.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 False Life
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Necromancy
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 2
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Personal
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  You
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 hour/level or until discharged; see text
\par You harness the power of unlife to grant yourself a limited ability to avoid death. While this spell is in effect, you gain temporary hit points equal to 1d10 +1 per caster level (maximum +10).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A small amount of alcohol or distilled spirits, which you use to trace certain sigils on your body during casting. These sigils cannot be seen once the alcohol or spirits evaporate.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 False Vision
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Illusion (Glamer)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 5, Sor/Wiz 5, Trickery 5
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  40-ft.-radius emanation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 hour/level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par Any divination (scrying) spell used to view anything within the area of this spell instead receives a false image (as the }{\i\fs20\cf0 major image }{\fs20\cf0 
spell), as defined by you at the time of casting. As long as the duration lasts, you can concentrate to change the image as desired. While you aren\rquote t concentrating, the image remains static.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 The ground dust of a piece of jade worth at least 250 gp, which is sprinkled into the air when the spell is cast.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Fear
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Necromancy [Fear, Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 4
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  30 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  Cone-shaped burst
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round/level or 1 round; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will partial
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par An invisible cone of terror causes each living creature in the area to become panicked unless it succeeds on a Will save. If cornered, a panicked creature begins cowering. If the Will save succeeds, the creature is shaken for 1 round.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 Either the heart of a hen or a white feather.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Feather Fall
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 1, Sor/Wiz 1
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 free action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Targets:}{\fs20\cf0  One Medium or smaller freefalling object or creature/level, no two of which may be more than 20 ft. apart
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Until landing or 1 round/level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (harmless) or Will negates (object)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (object)
\par The affected creatures or objects fall slowly. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Feather fall }{\fs20\cf0 
instantly changes the rate at which the targets fall to a mere 60 feet per round (equivalent to the end of a fall from a few feet), and the subjects take no damage upon landing while the spell is in effect. How
ever, when the spell duration expires, a normal rate of falling resumes.
\par The spell affects one or more Medium or smaller creatures (including gear and carried objects up to each creature\rquote s maximum load) or objects, or the equivalent in larger creatures: A 
Large creature or object counts as two Medium creatures or objects, a Huge creature or object counts as two Large creatures or objects, and so forth.
\par You can cast this spell with an instant utterance, quickly enough to save yourself if you unexpectedly fal
l. Casting the spell is a free action, like casting a quickened spell, and it counts toward the normal limit of one quickened spell per round. You may even cast this spell when it isn\rquote t your turn.
\par This spell has no special effect on ranged weapons unless they are falling quite a distance. If the spell is cast on a falling item the object does half normal damage based on its weight, with no bonus for the height of the drop.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Feather fall }{\fs20\cf0 works only upon free-falling objects. It does not affect a sword blow or a charging or flying creature.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Feeblemind
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 5
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One creature
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par If the target creature fails a Will saving throw, its Intelligence and Charisma scores each drop to 1. The affected creature is unable to use Intelligence- or Charisma-based skills, cast spells, understand language
, or communicate coherently. Still, it knows who its friends are and can follow them and even protect them. The subject remains in this state until a }{\i\fs20\cf0 heal}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 limited wish}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 miracle}{\fs20\cf0 
, or }{\i\fs20\cf0 wish }{\fs20\cf0 spell is used to cancel the effect of the }{\i\fs20\cf0 feeblemind}{\fs20\cf0 . A creature that can cast arcane spells, such as a sorcerer or a wizard, takes a \endash 4 penalty on its saving throw.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A handful of clay, crystal, glass, or mineral spheres.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Find the Path
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Divination
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 6, Clr 6, Drd 6, Knowledge 6, Travel 6
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, F
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  3 rounds
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Personal or touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  You or creature touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  10 min./level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None or Will negates (harmless)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No or Yes (harmless)
\par The recipient of this spell can find the shortest, most direct physical route to a specified destination, be it the way into or out of a locale. The locale can be outdoors, underground, or even inside a }{\i\fs20\cf0 maze }{\fs20\cf0 spell. }{\i\fs20\cf0 
Find the path }{\fs20\cf0 works with respect to locations, not objects or creatures at a locale. The location must be on the same plane as you are at the time of casting.
\par The spell enables the subject to sense the correct direction that will eventually lead it to its destination, indicating at appropriate times 
the exact path to follow or physical actions to take. For example, the spell enables the subject to sense trip wires or the proper word to bypass a }{\i\fs20\cf0 glyph of warding. }{\fs20\cf0 
The spell ends when the destination is reached or the duration expires, whichever comes first. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Find the path }{\fs20\cf0 can be used to remove the subject and its companions from the effect of a }{\i\fs20\cf0 maze }{\fs20\cf0 
spell in a single round.
\par This divination is keyed to the recipient, not its companions, and its effect does not predict or allow for the actions of creatures (including guardians).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Focus: }{\fs20\cf0 A set of divination counters of the sort you favor.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Find Traps
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Divination
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 2
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Personal
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  You
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 min./level
\par You gain intuitive insight into the wo
rkings of traps. You can use the Search skill to detect traps just as a rogue can. In addition, you gain an insight bonus equal to one-half your caster level (maximum +10) on Search checks made to find traps while the spell is in effect.
\par Note that }{\i\fs20\cf0 find traps }{\fs20\cf0 grants no ability to disable the traps that you may find.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Finger of Death
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Necromancy [Death]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Drd 8, Sor/Wiz 7
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One living creature
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Fortitude partial
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par You can slay any one living creature within range. The target is entitled to a Fortitude saving throw to survive the attack. If the save is successful, the creature instead takes 3d6 points of damage +1 point per caster level (maximum +25).
\par The subject might die from damage even if it succeeds on its saving throw.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Fire Seeds
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Creation) [Fire]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Drd 6, Fire 6, Sun 6
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Targets:}{\fs20\cf0  Up to four touched acorns or up to eight touched holly berries
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  10 min./level or until used
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None or Reflex half; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par Depending on the version of }{\i\fs20\cf0 fire seeds }{\fs20\cf0 you choose, you turn acorns into splash weapons that you or another character can throw, or you turn holly berries into bombs that you can detonate on command.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Acorn Grenades: }{\fs20\cf0 As many as four acorns turn into special splash weapons that can be hurled as far as 100 feet. A ranged touch atta
ck roll is required to strike the intended target. Together, the acorns are capable of dealing 1d6 points of fire damage per caster level (maximum 20d6), divided up among the acorns as you wish.
\par Each acorn explodes upon striking any hard surface. In additi
on to its regular fire damage, it deals 1 point of splash damage per die, and it ignites any combustible materials within 10 feet. A creature within this area that makes a successful Reflex saving throw takes only half damage; a creature struck directly i
s not allowed a saving throw.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Holly Berry Bombs: }{\fs20\cf0 You turn as many as eight holly berries into special bombs. The holly berries are usually placed by hand, since they are too light to make effective thrown weapons (they can be tossed only 5 feet). If you are
 within 200 feet and speak a word of command, each berry instantly bursts into flame, causing 1d8 points of fire damage +1 point per caster level to every creature in a 5-foot radius burst and igniting any combustible materials within 5 feet. A creature i
n the area that makes a successful Reflex saving throw takes only half damage.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 The acorns or holly berries.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Fire Shield
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Fire or Cold]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Fire 5, Sor/Wiz 4, Sun 4
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M/DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Personal
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  You
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round/level (D)
\par This spell wreathes you in flame and causes damage to each creature that attacks you in melee. The flames also protect you from either cold-based or fire-based attacks (your choice).
\par Any creature striking you with its body or a handheld weapon deals normal damage, but at the same time the attacker takes 1d6 points of damage +1 point per caster level (maximum +15). This damage is either cold damage (if the }{\i\fs20\cf0 shield }{
\fs20\cf0 protects against fire-based attacks) or fire damage (if the }{\i\fs20\cf0 shield }{\fs20\cf0 
protects against cold-based attacks). If the attacker has spell resistance, it applies to this effect. Creatures wielding weapons with exceptional reach are not subject to this damage if they attack you.
\par When casting this spell, you appear to immolate yourself, but the flames are thin and wispy, giving off light equal to only half the illumination of a normal torch (10 feet). The color of the flames is determined randomly (50% chance of either color)
\emdash blue or green if the }{\i\fs20\cf0 chill shield }{\fs20\cf0 is cast, violet or blue if the }{\i\fs20\cf0 warm shield }{\fs20\cf0 is employed. The special powers of each version are as follows.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Warm Shield: }{\fs20\cf0 The flames are warm to the touch. You take only half damage from cold-based attacks. If such an attack allows a Reflex save for half damage, you take no damage on a successful save.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Chill Shield: }{\fs20\cf0 The flames are cool to the touch. You take only half damage from fire-based attacks. If such an attack allows a Reflex save for half damage, you take no damage on a successful save.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A bit of phosphorus for the }{\i\fs20\cf0 warm shield; }{\fs20\cf0 a live firefly or glowworm or the tail portions of four dead ones for the }{\i\fs20\cf0 chill shield}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Fire Storm
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Fire]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 8, Drd 7, Fire 7
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  Two 10-ft. cubes per level (S)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Reflex half
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par When a }{\i\fs20\cf0 fire storm }{\fs20\cf0 spell is cast, the whole area is shot through with sheets of roaring flame. The raging flames do not har
m natural vegetation, ground cover, and any plant creatures in the area that you wish to exclude from damage. Any other creature within the area takes 1d6 points of fire damage per caster level (maximum 20d6).
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Fire Trap
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjuration [Fire]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Drd 2, Sor/Wiz 4
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  10 minutes
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Object touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Permanent until discharged (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Reflex half; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Fire trap }{\fs20\cf0 creates a fiery explosion when an intruder opens the item that the trap protects. A }{\i\fs20\cf0 fire trap }{\fs20\cf0 can ward any object that can be opened and closed.
\par When casting }{\i\fs20\cf0 fire trap, }{\fs20\cf0 you select a point on the object as the spell\rquote s center. When someone other than you opens the object, a fiery explosion fills the area within a 5-foot radius around the spell\rquote 
s center. The flames deal 1d4 points of fire damage +1 point per caster level (maximum +20). The item protected by the trap is not harmed by this explosion.
\par A }{\i\fs20\cf0 fire trapped }{\fs20\cf0 item cannot have a second closure or warding spell placed on it.
\par A }{\i\fs20\cf0 knock }{\fs20\cf0 spell does not bypass a }{\i\fs20\cf0 fire trap}{\fs20\cf0 .  An unsuccessful }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel magic }{\fs20\cf0 spell does not detonate the spell.
\par Underwater, this ward deals half damage and creates a large cloud of steam.
\par You can use the }{\i\fs20\cf0 fire trapped }{\fs20\cf0 object without discharging it, as can any individual to whom the object was specifically attuned when cast. Attuning a }{\i\fs20\cf0 fire trapped }{\fs20\cf0 
object to an individual usually involves setting a password that you can share with friends.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Note: }{\fs20\cf0 Magic traps such as }{\i\fs20\cf0 fire trap }{\fs20\cf0 are hard to detect and disable. A rogue (only) can use the Search skill to find a }{\i\fs20\cf0 fire trap }{\fs20\cf0 
and Disable Device to thwart it. The DC in each case is 25 + spell level (DC 27 for a druid\rquote s }{\i\fs20\cf0 fire trap }{\fs20\cf0 or DC 29 for the arcane version).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A half-pound of gold dust (cost 25 gp) sprinkled on the warded object.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Fireball
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Fire]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 3
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  20-ft.-radius spread
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Reflex half
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par A }{\i\fs20\cf0 fireball }{\fs20\cf0 spell is an explosion of flame that detonates with a low roar and deals 1d6 points of fire damage per caster level (maximum 10d6) to every creature within the area. Unattend
ed objects also take this damage. The explosion creates almost no pressure.
\par You point your finger and determine the range (distance and height) at which the }{\i\fs20\cf0 fireball }{\fs20\cf0 is to burst. A glowing, pea-sized bead streaks from the pointing digit and, unless it impa
cts upon a material body or solid barrier prior to attaining the prescribed range, blossoms into the }{\i\fs20\cf0 fireball }{\fs20\cf0 
at that point. (An early impact results in an early detonation.) If you attempt to send the bead through a narrow passage, such as through an arrow slit, you must \'93hit\'94
 the opening with a ranged touch attack, or else the bead strikes the barrier and detonates prematurely.
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 fireball }{\fs20\cf0 sets fire to combustibles and damages objects in the area. It can melt metals with low melting points, such as lead,
 gold, copper, silver, and bronze. If the damage caused to an interposing barrier shatters or breaks through it, the }{\i\fs20\cf0 fireball }{\fs20\cf0 
may continue beyond the barrier if the area permits; otherwise it stops at the barrier just as any other spell effect does.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A tiny ball of bat guano and sulfur.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Flame Arrow
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation [Fire]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 3
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Fifty projectiles, all of which must be in contact with each other at the time of casting
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  10 min./level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par You turn ammunition (such as arrows, bolts, shuriken, and stones) into fiery projectiles. Each piece 
of ammunition deals an extra 1d6 points of fire damage to any target it hits. A flaming projectile can easily ignite a flammable object or structure, but it won\rquote t ignite a creature it strikes.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A drop of oil and a small piece of flint.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Flame Blade
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Fire]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Drd 2
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  0 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  Sword-like beam
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 min./level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par A 3-foot-long, blazing beam of red-hot fire springs forth from your hand. You wield this bladelike beam as if it were a scimitar. Attacks with the }{\i\fs20\cf0 flame blade }{\fs20\cf0 
are melee touch attacks. The blade deals 1d8 points of fire damage +1 point per two caster levels (maximum +10). Since the blade is immaterial, your Strength modifier does not apply to the damage. A }{\i\fs20\cf0 flame blade }{\fs20\cf0 
can ignite combustible materials such as parchment, straw, dry sticks, and cloth.
\par The spell does not function underwater.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Flame Strike
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Fire]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 5, Drd 4, Sun 5, War 5
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  Cylinder (10-ft. radius, 40 ft. high)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Reflex half
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par A }{\i\fs20\cf0 flame strike }{\fs20\cf0 produces a vertical column of divine fire ro
aring downward. The spell deals 1d6 points of damage per caster level (maximum 15d6). Half the damage is fire damage, but the other half results directly from divine power and is therefore not subject to being reduced by resistance to fire-based attacks.

\par 
\par }{\cf0 Flaming Sphere
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Fire]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Drd 2, Sor/Wiz 2
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M/DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  5-ft.-diameter sphere
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round/level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Reflex negates
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par A
 burning globe of fire rolls in whichever direction you point and burns those it strikes. It moves 30 feet per round. As part of this movement, it can ascend or jump up to 30 feet to strike a target. If it enters a space with a creature, it stops moving f
or the round and deals 2d6 points of fire damage to that creature, though a successful Reflex save negates that damage. A }{\i\fs20\cf0 flaming sphere }{\fs20\cf0 
rolls over barriers less than 4 feet tall. It ignites flammable substances it touches and illuminates the same area as a torch would.
\par The sphere moves as long as you actively direct it (a move action for you); otherwise, it merely stays at rest and burns. It can be extinguished by any means that would put out a normal fire of its size. The surface of the sphere has a spongy
, yielding consistency and so does not cause damage except by its flame. It cannot push aside unwilling creatures or batter down large obstacles. A }{\i\fs20\cf0 flaming sphere }{\fs20\cf0 winks out if it exceeds the spell\rquote s range.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A bit of tallow, a pinch of brimstone, and a dusting of powdered iron.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Flare
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Light]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 0, Drd 0, Sor/Wiz 0
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  Burst of light
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Fortitude negates
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par This cantrip creates a burst of light. If you cause the light to burst directly in front of a single creature, that creature is dazzled for 1 minute unless it makes a successful Fortitude save. Sightless creatures, 
as well as creatures already dazzled, are not affected by }{\i\fs20\cf0 flare}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Flesh to Stone
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 6
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One creature
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Fortitude negates
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par The subject, along with all its carried gear, turns into a mindless, inert statue. If the statue resulting from this spell is broken or damaged, the subject (if ever returned to its original state) has similar 
damage or deformities. The creature is not dead, but it does not seem to be alive either when viewed with spells such as }{\i\fs20\cf0 deathwatch}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par Only creatures made of flesh are affected by this spell.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 Lime, water, and earth.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Fly
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 3, Travel 3
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, F/DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Creature touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 min./level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Will negates (harmless)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (harmless)
\par The subject can fly at a speed of 60 feet (or 40 feet if it wears medium or heavy armor, or if it carries a medium or heavy load). It can ascend at half speed and descend at double speed, and its maneuverability is good. Using a }{\i\fs20\cf0 fly }{
\fs20\cf0 spell requires only as much concentration as walking, so the subject can attack or cast spells normally. The subject of a }{\i\fs20\cf0 fly }{\fs20\cf0 
spell can charge but not run, and it cannot carry aloft more weight than its maximum load, plus any armor it wears.
\par Should the spell duration expire whil
e the subject is still aloft, the magic fails slowly. The subject floats downward 60 feet per round for 1d6 rounds. If it reaches the ground in that amount of time, it lands safely. If not, it falls the rest of the distance, taking 1d6 points of damage pe
r 10 feet of fall. Since dispelling a spell effectively ends it, the subject also descends in this way if the }{\i\fs20\cf0 fly }{\fs20\cf0 spell is dispelled, but not if it is negated by an }{\i\fs20\cf0 antimagic field}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Focus: }{\fs20\cf0 A wing feather from any bird.
\par }{\cf0 
\par Floating Disk
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Force]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 1
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  3-ft.-diameter disk of force
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 hour/level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par You create a slightly concave, circular plane 
of force that follows you about and carries loads for you. The disk is 3 feet in diameter and 1 inch deep at its center. It can hold 100 pounds of weight per caster level. (If used to transport a liquid, its capacity is 2 gallons.) The disk floats approxi
m
ately 3 feet above the ground at all times and remains level. It floats along horizontally within spell range and will accompany you at a rate of no more than your normal speed each round. If not otherwise directed, it maintains a constant interval of 5 f
e
et between itself and you. The disk winks out of existence when the spell duration expires. The disk also winks out if you move beyond range or try to take the disk more than 3 feet away from the surface beneath it. When the disk winks out, whatever it wa
s supporting falls to the surface beneath it.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A drop of mercury.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Fog Cloud
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Creation)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Drd 2, Sor/Wiz 2, Water 2
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft. level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  Fog spreads in 20-ft. radius, 20 ft. high
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  10 min./level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par A bank of fog billows out from the point you designate. The fog obscures all sight, including darkvision, beyond 5 feet. A creature within 5 feet has concealme
nt (attacks have a 20% miss chance). Creatures farther away have total concealment (50% miss chance, and the attacker can\rquote t use sight to locate the target).
\par A moderate wind (11+ mph) disperses the fog in 4 rounds; a strong wind (21+ mph) disperses the fog in 1 round.
\par The spell does not function underwater.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Forbiddance
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjuration
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 6
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M, DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  6 rounds
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  60-ft. cube/level (S)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Permanent
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  See text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Forbiddance }{\fs20\cf0 seals an area against all planar travel into or within it. This includes all teleportation spells (such as }{\i\fs20\cf0 dimension door }{\fs20\cf0 and }{\i\fs20\cf0 teleport), plane shifting, }{\fs20\cf0 
astral travel, ethereal travel, and all summoning spells. Such effects simply fail automatically.
\par In addition, it damages entering creatures whose alignments are different from yours. The effect on those attempting to enter the warded a
rea is based on their alignment relative to yours (see below). A creature inside the area when the spell is cast takes no damage unless it exits the area and attempts to reenter, at which time it is affected as normal.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Alignments identical: }{\fs20\cf0 No effect. The creature may enter the area freely (although not by planar travel).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Alignments different with respect to either law/chaos or good/evil: }{\fs20\cf0 The creature takes 6d6 points of damage. A successful Will save halves the damage, and spell resistance applies.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Alignments different with respect to both law/chaos and good/evil: }{\fs20\cf0 The creature takes 12d6 points of damage. A successful Will save halves the damage, and spell resistance applies.
\par At your option, the abjuration can include a password, in which case creatures of alignments different from yours can avoid the damage by speaking the password as they enter the area. You must select this option (and the password) at the time of casting.

\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Dispel magic }{\fs20\cf0 does not dispel a }{\i\fs20\cf0 forbiddance }{\fs20\cf0 effect unless the dispeller\rquote s level is at least as high as your caster level.
\par You can\rquote t have multiple overlapping }{\i\fs20\cf0 forbiddance }{\fs20\cf0 effects. In such a case, the more recent effect stops at the boundary of the older effect.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A sprinkling of holy water and rare incenses
 worth at least 1,500 gp, plus 1,500 gp per 60-foot cube. If a password is desired, this requires the burning of additional rare incenses worth at least 1,000 gp, plus 1,000 gp per 60-foot cube.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Forcecage
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Force]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 7
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  Barred cage (20-ft. cube) or windowless cell (10-ft. cube)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  2 hours/level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par This powerful spell brings into being an immobile, invisible cubical prison composed of either bars of force or solid walls of force (your choice).
\par Creatures within the area are caught and contained unless they are too big to fit inside, in which case the 
spell automatically fails. Teleportation and other forms of astral travel provide a means of escape, but the force walls or bars extend into the Ethereal Plane, blocking ethereal travel.
\par Like a }{\i\fs20\cf0 wall of force }{\fs20\cf0 spell, a }{\i\fs20\cf0 forcecage }{\fs20\cf0 resists }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel magic, }{\fs20\cf0 but it is vulnerable to a }{\i\fs20\cf0 disintegrate }{\fs20\cf0 spell, and it can be destroyed by a }{\i\fs20\cf0 
sphere of annihilation }{\fs20\cf0 or a }{\i\fs20\cf0 rod of cancellation.
\par Barred Cage: }{\fs20\cf0 This version of the spell produces a 20-foot cube made of bands of force (similar to a }{\i\fs20\cf0 wall of force }{\fs20\cf0 spell) for bars. The band
s are a half-inch wide, with half-inch gaps between them. Any creature capable of passing through such a small space can escape; others are confined. You can\rquote 
t attack a creature in a barred cage with a weapon unless the weapon can fit between the gaps. Eve
n against such weapons (including arrows and similar ranged attacks), a creature in the barred cage has cover. All spells and breath weapons can pass through the gaps in the bars.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Windowless Cell: }{\fs20\cf0 This version of the spell produces a 10-foot cube with no way in and no way out. Solid walls of force form its six sides.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 Ruby dust worth 1,500 gp, which is tossed into the air and disappears when you cast the spell.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Forceful Hand
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Force]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 6
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, F
\par This spell functions like }{\i\fs20\cf0 interposing hand, }{\fs20\cf0 except that the }{\i\fs20\cf0 forceful hand }{\fs20\cf0 
pursues and pushes away the opponent that you designate. Treat this attack as a bull rush with a +14 bonus on the Strength check (+8 for Strength 27, +4 for being Large, and a +2 bonus for c
harging, which it always gets). The hand always moves with the opponent to push that target back the full distance allowed, and it has no speed limit. Directing the spell to a new target is a move action.
\par A very strong creature could not push the hand out of its way because the latter would instantly reposition itself between the creature and you, but an opponent could push the hand up against you by successfully bull rushing it.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Focus: }{\fs20\cf0 A sturdy glove made of leather or heavy cloth.
\par }{\cf0 
\par Foresight
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Divination
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Drd 9, Knowledge 9, Sor/Wiz 9
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M/DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Personal or touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  See text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  10 min./level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None or Will negates (harmless)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No or Yes (harmless)
\par This spell grants you a powerful sixth sense in relation to yourself or another. Once }{\i\fs20\cf0 foresight }{\fs20\cf0 
is cast, you receive instantaneous warnings of impending danger or harm to the subject of the spell. You are never surprised or flat-footed. In addition, the sp
ell gives you a general idea of what action you might take to best protect yourself and gives you a +2 insight bonus to AC and Reflex saves. This insight bonus is lost whenever you would lose a Dexterity bonus to AC.
\par When another creature is the subject of
 the spell, you receive warnings about that creature. You must communicate what you learn to the other creature for the warning to be useful, and the creature can be caught unprepared in the absence of such a warning. Shouting a warning, yanking a person 
b
ack, and even telepathically communicating (via an appropriate spell) can all be accomplished before some danger befalls the subject, provided you act on the warning without delay. The subject, however, does not gain the insight bonus to AC and Reflex sav
es.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A hummingbird\rquote s feather.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Fox\rquote s Cunning
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 2
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M/DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Creature touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 min./level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (harmless)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par The transmuted creature becomes smarter. The spell grants a +4 enhancement bonus to Intelligence, adding the usual benefits to Intelligence-based skill checks and other uses of the Intelligence modifier. Wizards (and other spell
casters who rely on Intelligence) affected by this spell do not gain any additional bonus spells for the increased Intelligence, but the save DCs for spells they cast while under this spell\rquote s effect do increase. This spell doesn\rquote 
t grant extra skill points.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A few hairs, or a pinch of dung, from a fox.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Fox\rquote s Cunning, Mass
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 6, Sor/Wiz 6
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One creature/level, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart
\par This spell functions like }{\i\fs20\cf0 fox\rquote s cunning}{\fs20\cf0 , except that it affects multiple creatures.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Freedom
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjuration
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 9
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) or see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One creature
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (harmless)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par The subject is freed from spells and effects that restrict its movement, including }{\i\fs20\cf0 binding}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 entangle}{\fs20\cf0 , grappling, }{\i\fs20\cf0 imprisonment}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 maze}{\fs20\cf0 , paralysis, }{
\i\fs20\cf0 petrification}{\fs20\cf0 , pinning, }{\i\fs20\cf0 sleep}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 slow}{\fs20\cf0 , stunning, }{\i\fs20\cf0 temporal stasis}{\fs20\cf0 , and }{\i\fs20\cf0 web}{\fs20\cf0 . To free a creature from }{\i\fs20\cf0 imprisonment }{
\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 maze, }{\fs20\cf0 you must know its name and background, and you must cast this spell at the spot where it was entombed or banished into the }{\i\fs20\cf0 maze}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Freedom of Movement
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjuration
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 4, Clr 4, Drd 4, Luck 4, Rgr 4
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M, DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Personal or touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  You or creature touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  10 min./level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (harmless)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (harmless)
\par This spell enables you or a creature you touch to move and attack normally for the duration of the spell, even under the influence of magic that usually impedes movement, such as paralysis, }{\i\fs20\cf0 solid fog}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 slow}{
\fs20\cf0 , and }{\i\fs20\cf0 web}{\fs20\cf0 . The subject automatically succeeds on any grapple check made to resist a grapple attempt, as well as on grapple checks or Escape Artist checks made to escape a grapple or a pin.
\par The spell also allows the subject to move and attack normally while underwater, even with slashing weapons such as axe
s and swords or with bludgeoning weapons such as flails, hammers, and maces, provided that the weapon is wielded in the hand rather than hurled. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 freedom of movement }{\fs20\cf0 spell does not, however, allow water breathing.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A leather thong, bound around the arm or a similar appendage.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Freezing Sphere
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Cold]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 6
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, F
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target, Effect, or Area:}{\fs20\cf0  See text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous or 1 round/level; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Reflex half; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Freezing sphere }{\fs20\cf0 creates a frigid globe of cold energy that streaks from your fingertips to the location y
ou select, where it explodes in a 10-foot-radius burst, dealing 1d6 points of cold damage per caster level (maximum 15d6) to each creature in the area. An elemental (water) creature instead takes 1d8 points of cold damage per caster level (maximum 15d8).

\par If the }{\i\fs20\cf0 freezing sphere }{\fs20\cf0 
strikes a body of water or a liquid that is principally water (not including water-based creatures), it freezes the liquid to a depth of 6 inches over an area equal to 100 square feet (a 10- foot square) per caster level (maximum 1,50
0 square feet). This ice lasts for 1 round per caster level. Creatures that were swimming on the surface of frozen water become trapped in the ice. Attempting to break free is a full-round action. A trapped creature must make a DC 25 Strength check or a D
C 25 Escape Artist check to do so.
\par You can refrain from firing the globe after completing the spell, if you wish. Treat this as a touch spell for which you are holding the charge. You can hold the charge for as long as 1 round per level, at the end of which time the }{\i\fs20\cf0 
freezing sphere }{\fs20\cf0 bursts centered on you (and you receive no saving throw to resist its effect). Firing the globe in a later round is a standard action.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Focus: }{\fs20\cf0 A small crystal sphere.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Gaseous Form
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Air 3, Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 3
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  S, M/DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 Willing corporeal creature touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  2 min./level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par The subject and all its gear become insubstantial, misty, and translucent. Its materia
l armor (including natural armor) becomes worthless, though its size, Dexterity, deflection bonuses, and armor bonuses from force effects still apply. The subject gains damage reduction 10/magic and becomes immune to poison and critical hits. It can
\rquote t atta
ck or cast spells with verbal, somatic, material, or focus components while in gaseous form. (This does not rule out the use of certain spells that the subject may have prepared using the feats Silent Spell, Still Spell, and Eschew Materials.) The subject
 also loses supernatural abilities while in gaseous form. If it has a touch spell ready to use, that spell is discharged harmlessly when the }{\i\fs20\cf0 gaseous form }{\fs20\cf0 spell takes effect.
\par A gaseous creature can\rquote t run, but it can fly at a speed of 10 feet (maneuverability
 perfect). It can pass through small holes or narrow openings, even mere cracks, with all it was wearing or holding in its hands, as long as the spell persists. The creature is subject to the effects of wind, and it can\rquote 
t enter water or other liquid. It also can\rquote t manipulate objects or activate items, even those carried along with its gaseous form. Continuously active items remain active, though in some cases their effects may be moot.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A bit of gauze and a wisp of smoke.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Gate
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Creation or Calling)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 9, Sor/Wiz 9
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, XP; see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  See text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Instantaneous or concentration (up to 1 round/level); see text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par Casting a }{\i\fs20\cf0 gate }{\fs20\cf0 spell has two effects. First, it creates an interdimensional connection between your plane of existence and a plane you specify, allowing travel between those two planes in either direction.
\par Second, you may then call a particular individual or kind of being through the }{\i\fs20\cf0 gate.
\par }{\fs20\cf0 The }{\i\fs20\cf0 gate }{\fs20\cf0 itself is a circular hoop or disk from 5 to 20 feet in diameter (caster\rquote s choice), oriented in the direction you desire when it comes into existence (typically vertical and
 facing you). It is a two-dimensional window looking into the plane you specified when casting the spell, and anyone or anything that moves through is shunted instantly to the other side.
\par A }{\i\fs20\cf0 gate }{\fs20\cf0 has a front and a back. Creatures moving through the }{\i\fs20\cf0 gate }{\fs20\cf0 from the front are transported to the other plane; creatures moving through it from the back are not.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Planar Travel: }{\fs20\cf0 As a mode of planar travel, a }{\i\fs20\cf0 gate }{\fs20\cf0 spell functions much like a }{\i\fs20\cf0 plane shift }{\fs20\cf0 spell, except that the }{\i\fs20\cf0 gate }{\fs20\cf0 
opens precisely at the point you desire (a creation effect). Deities and other beings who rule a planar realm can prevent a }{\i\fs20\cf0 gate }{\fs20\cf0 
from opening in their presence or personal demesnes if they so desire. Travelers need not join hands with you\emdash anyone who chooses to step through the portal is transported. A }{\i\fs20\cf0 gate }{\fs20\cf0 
cannot be opened to another point on the same plane; the spell works only for interplanar travel.
\par You may hold the }{\i\fs20\cf0 gate }{\fs20\cf0 open only for a brief time (no more than 1 round per caster level), and you must concentrate on doing so, or else the interplanar connection is severed.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Calling Creatures: }{\fs20\cf0 The second effect of the }{\i\fs20\cf0 gate }{\fs20\cf0 
spell is to call an extraplanar creature to your aid (a calling effect). By naming a particular being or kind of being as you cast the spell, you cause the }{\i\fs20\cf0 gate }{\fs20\cf0 to open in th
e immediate vicinity of the desired creature and pull the subject through, willing or unwilling. Deities and unique beings are under no compulsion to come through the }{\i\fs20\cf0 gate, }{\fs20\cf0 
although they may choose to do so of their own accord. This use of the spell creates a }{\i\fs20\cf0 gate }{\fs20\cf0 that remains open just long enough to transport the called creatures. This use of the spell has an XP cost (see below).
\par If you choose to call a kind of creature instead of a known individual you may call either a single creature (of any HD) or sev
eral creatures. You can call and control several creatures as long as their HD total does not exceed your caster level. In the case of a single creature, you can control it if its HD do not exceed twice your caster level. A single creature with more HD th
an twice your caster level can\rquote 
t be controlled. Deities and unique beings cannot be controlled in any event. An uncontrolled being acts as it pleases, making the calling of such creatures rather dangerous. An uncontrolled being may return to its home plane at any time.
\par A controlled creature can be commanded to perform a service for you. Such services fall into two categories: immediate tasks and contractual service. Fighting for you in a single battle or taking any other actions that can be accomplished with
in 1 round per caster level counts as an immediate task; you need not make any agreement or pay any reward for the creature\rquote s help. The creature departs at the end of the spell.
\par If you choose to exact a longer or more involved form of service from a called creature, you must offer some fair trade in return for that service. The service exacted must be reasonable with respect to the promised favor or reward; see the }{\i\fs20\cf0 
lesser planar ally }{\fs20\cf0 spell for appropriate rewards. (Some creatures may want their payment in \'93livestock\'94
 rather than in coin, which could involve complications.) Immediately upon completion of the service, the being is transported to your vicinity, and you must then and there turn over the promised reward. After this is done, the creature is instan
tly freed to return to its own plane.
\par Failure to fulfill the promise to the letter results in your being subjected to service by the creature or by its liege and master, at the very least. At worst, the creature or its kin may attack you.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Note: }{\fs20\cf0 When you use a calling spell such as }{\i\fs20\cf0 gate }{\fs20\cf0 to call an air, chaotic, earth, evil, fire, good, lawful, or water creature, it becomes a spell of that type.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 XP Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 1,000 XP (only for the }{\i\fs20\cf0 calling creatures }{\fs20\cf0 function).
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Geas/Quest
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Enchantment (Compulsion) [Language-Dependent, Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 6, Clr 6, Sor/Wiz 6
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  10 minutes
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One living creature
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par This spell functions similarly to }{\i\fs20\cf0 lesser geas, }{\fs20\cf0 except that it affects a creature of any HD and allows no saving throw.
\par Instead of taking penalties to ability scores (as with }{\i\fs20\cf0 lesser geas}{\fs20\cf0 ), the subject takes 3d6 points of damage each day it does not attempt to follow the }{\i\fs20\cf0 geas/quest}{\fs20\cf0 
. Additionally, each day it must make a Fortitude saving throw or become sickened. These effects end 24 hours after the creature attempts to resume the }{\i\fs20\cf0 geas/ quest}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par A }{\i\fs20\cf0 remove curse }{\fs20\cf0 spell ends a }{\i\fs20\cf0 geas/quest }{\fs20\cf0 spell only if its caster level is at least two higher than your caster level. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Break enchantment }{\fs20\cf0 does not end a }{\i\fs20\cf0 geas/quest}{
\fs20\cf0 , but }{\i\fs20\cf0 limited wish}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 miracle}{\fs20\cf0 , and }{\i\fs20\cf0 wish }{\fs20\cf0 do.
\par Bards, sorcerers, and wizards usually refer to this spell as }{\i\fs20\cf0 geas, }{\fs20\cf0 while clerics call the same spell }{\i\fs20\cf0 quest}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Geas, Lesser
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Enchantment (Compulsion) [Language-Dependent, Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 4
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  One living creature with 7 HD or less
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  One day/level or until discharged (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par A }{\i\fs20\cf0 lesser geas }{\fs20\cf0 
places a magical command on a creature to carry out some service or to refrain from some action or course of activity, as desired by you. The creature must have 7 or fewer Hit Dice and be able to understand you. While a }{\i\fs20\cf0 geas }{\fs20\cf0 
cannot compel a creature to kill itself or perform acts that would result in certain death, it can cause almost any other course of activity.
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 geased }{\fs20\cf0 creature must follow the given instructions until the }{\i\fs20\cf0 geas }{\fs20\cf0 is completed, no matter how long it takes.
\par If the instructions involve some open-ended task that the recipient cannot complete through his own actions the spell remains in effect for a maximum of one day per caster level. A clever recipient can subvert some instructions:
\par If the subject is prevented from obeying the }{\i\fs20\cf0 lesser geas }{\fs20\cf0 for 24 hours, it takes a \endash 2 penalty to each of its ability scores. Each day, another \endash 2 penalty accumulates, up to a total of \endash 
8. No ability score can be reduced to less than 1 by this effect. The ability score penalties are removed 24 hours after the subject resumes obeying the }{\i\fs20\cf0 lesser geas.
\par }{\fs20\cf0 A }{\i\fs20\cf0 lesser geas }{\fs20\cf0 (and all ability score penalties) can be ended by }{\i\fs20\cf0 break enchantment}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 limited wish}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 remove curse}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 miracle}{
\fs20\cf0 , or }{\i\fs20\cf0 wish}{\fs20\cf0 . }{\i\fs20\cf0 Dispel magic }{\fs20\cf0 does not affect a }{\i\fs20\cf0 lesser geas}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Gentle Repose
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Necromancy
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 2, Sor/Wiz 3
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M/DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Corpse touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  One day/level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (object)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (object)
\par You preserve the remains of a dead creature so that they do not decay. Doing so effectively extends the time limit on raising that creature from the dead (see }{\i\fs20\cf0 raise dead}{\fs20\cf0 ). Days spent under the influence of this spell don\rquote 
t count against the time limit. Additionally, this spell makes transporting a fallen comrade more pleasant.
\par The spell also works on severed body parts and the like.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A pinch of salt, and a copper piece for each eye the corpse has (or had).
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Ghost Sound
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Illusion (Figment)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 0, Sor/Wiz 0
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  Illusory sounds
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round/level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will disbelief (if interacted with)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Ghost sound }{\fs20\cf0 allows you to create a volume of sound that rises, recedes, approaches, or remains at a fixed place. You choose what type of sound }{\i\fs20\cf0 ghost sound }{\fs20\cf0 
creates when casting it and cannot thereafter change the sound\rquote s basic character.
\par The volume of sound created depends on your level. You can produce as much noise as four normal humans per caster level (maximum twenty humans). Thus, talking, singing, shouting, walking, marching, or running sounds can be created. The noise a }{
\i\fs20\cf0 ghost sound }{\fs20\cf0 spell produces can be virtually any type of sound within the volume limit. A horde of rats run
ning and squeaking is about the same volume as eight humans running and shouting. A roaring lion is equal to the noise from sixteen humans, while a roaring dire tiger is equal to the noise from twenty humans.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Ghost sound }{\fs20\cf0 can enhance the effectiveness of a }{\i\fs20\cf0 silent image }{\fs20\cf0 spell.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Ghost sound }{\fs20\cf0 can be made permanent with a }{\i\fs20\cf0 permanency }{\fs20\cf0 spell.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A bit of wool or a small lump of wax.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Ghoul Touch
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Necromancy
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 2
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Living humanoid touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1d6+2 rounds
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Fortitude negates
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par Imbuing you with negative energy, this spell allows you to paralyze a single living humanoid for the duration of the spell with a successful melee touch attack.
\par Additionally, the paralyzed subject exudes a carrion stench that causes all living creatures (except you) in a 10-foot-radius spread to become sickened (Fortitude negates). A }{\i\fs20\cf0 neutralize poison }{\fs20\cf0 
spell removes the effect from a sickened creature, and creatures immune to poison are unaffected by the stench.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A small scrap of cloth taken from clothing worn by a ghoul, or a pinch of earth from a ghoul\rquote s lair.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Giant Vermin
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 4, Drd 4
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Targets:}{\fs20\cf0  Up to three vermin, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 min./level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par You turn three normal-sized centipedes, two no
rmal-sized spiders, or a single normal-sized scorpion into larger forms. Only one type of vermin can be transmuted (so a single casting cannot affect both a centipede and a spider), and all must be grown to the same size. The size to which the vermin can 
be grown depends on your level; see the table below.
\par Any giant vermin created by this spell do not attempt to harm you, but your control of such creatures is limited to simple commands (\'93Attack,\'94 \'93Defend,\'94 \'93Stop,\'94 and so forth). Orders to attack a certain c
reature when it appears or guard against a particular occurrence are too complex for the vermin to understand. Unless commanded to do otherwise, the giant vermin attack whoever or whatever is near them.
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1242\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2508
\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0 \b\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Caster Level}{\cell }{\fs20 Vermin Size}{\cell }\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1242\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2508\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1242\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2508\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 9th or lower}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 Medium}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1242\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx2508\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 10th\endash 13th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 Large}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1242\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2508\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 14th\endash 17th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 Huge}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1242\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2508\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 18th\endash 19th}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 Gargantuan}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1242\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2508\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1242\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2508\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20\cf0 20th or higher}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 Colossal}{\fs18\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs18\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1242\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2508\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Glibness
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 3
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Personal
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  You
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  10 min./level (D)
\par Your speech becomes fluent and more believable. You gain a +30 bonus on Bluff checks made to convince another of the truth of your words. (This bonus doesn\rquote 
t apply to other uses of the Bluff skill, such as feinting in combat, creating a diversion to hide, or communicating a hidden message via innuendo.)
\par If a magical effect is used against you that would detect your lies or force you to speak the truth the user of the effect must succeed on a caster level check (1d20 + caster level) against a DC of 15 + your caster level to succeed. Failure means the 
effect does not detect your lies or force you to speak only the truth.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Glitterdust
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Creation)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 2
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  Creatures and objects within 10-ft.-radius spread
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round/level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (blinding only)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par A cloud of golden particles covers everyone and everything in the area, causing creatures to become blinded and visib
ly outlining invisible things for the duration of the spell. All within the area are covered by the dust, which cannot be removed and continues to sparkle until it fades.
\par Any creature covered by the dust takes a \endash 40 penalty on Hide checks.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 Ground mica.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Globe of Invulnerability
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjuration
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 6
\par This spell functions like }{\i\fs20\cf0 lesser globe of invulnerability, }{\fs20\cf0 except that it also excludes 4th-level spells and spell-like effects.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Globe of Invulnerability, Lesser
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjuration
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 4
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  10 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  10-ft.-radius spherical emanation, centered on you
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round/level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par An immobile, faintly shimmering magical sphere surrounds you and excludes all spell effects of 3rd level or lower. The area or effect of any such spells does not include the area of the }{\i\fs20\cf0 lesser globe of invulnerability}{\fs20\cf0 
. Such spells fail to affect any target located within the globe. Excluded effects include spell-l
ike abilities and spells or spell-like effects from items. However, any type of spell can be cast through or out of the magical globe. Spells of 4th level and higher are not affected by the globe, nor are spells already in effect when the globe is cast. T
he globe can be brought down by a targeted }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel magic }{\fs20\cf0 spell, but not by an area }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel magic. }{\fs20\cf0 You can leave and return to the globe without penalty.
\par Note that spell effects are not disrupted unless their effects enter the globe, and even then they are merely suppressed, not dispelled. 
\par If a given spell has more than one level depending on which character class is casting it, use the level appropriate to the caster to determine whether }{\i\fs20\cf0 lesser globe of invulnerability }{\fs20\cf0 stops it.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A glass or crystal bead that shatters at the expiration of the spell.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Glyph of Warding
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjuration
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 3
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  10 minutes
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target or Area:}{\fs20\cf0  Object touched or up to 5 sq. ft./level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  Permanent until discharged (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  See text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No (object) and Yes; see text
\par This powerful inscription harms those who enter, pass, or open the warded area or object. A }{\i\fs20\cf0 glyph of warding }{\fs20\cf0 can guard a bridge or passage, ward a portal, trap a chest or box, and so on.
\par You set the conditions of the ward. Typically, any creature entering the warded area or opening the warded object without speaking a password (which you set when casting the spell) is subject to the magic it stores. Alternatively or in addition to a pas
sword trigger, }{\i\fs20\cf0 glyphs }{\fs20\cf0 can be set according to physical characteristics (such as height or weight) or creature type, subtype, or kind. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Glyphs }{\fs20\cf0 
can also be set with respect to good, evil, law, or chaos, or to pass those of your religion. They cannot be set according to class, Hit Dice, or level. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Glyphs }{\fs20\cf0 
respond to invisible creatures normally but are not triggered by those who travel past them ethereally. Multiple }{\i\fs20\cf0 glyphs }{\fs20\cf0 cannot be cast on the same area. However, if a cabinet has three drawers, each can be separately warded.

\par When casting the spell, you weave a tracery of faintly glowing lines around the warding sigil. A }{\i\fs20\cf0 glyph }{\fs20\cf0 can be placed to conform to any shape up to the limitations of your total square footage. When the spell is completed, the }{
\i\fs20\cf0 glyph }{\fs20\cf0 and tracery become nearly invisible.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Glyphs }{\fs20\cf0 cannot be affected or bypassed by such means as physical or magical probing, though they can be dispelled. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Mislead}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 polymorph}{\fs20\cf0 , and }{\i\fs20\cf0 nondetection }{\fs20\cf0 
(and similar magical effects) can fool a }{\i\fs20\cf0 glyph}{\fs20\cf0 , though nonmagical disguises and the like can\rquote t. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Read magic }{\fs20\cf0 allows you to identify a }{\i\fs20\cf0 glyph of warding }{\fs20\cf0 
with a DC 13 Spellcraft check. Identifying the }{\i\fs20\cf0 glyph }{\fs20\cf0 does not discharge it and allows you to know the basic nature of the }{\i\fs20\cf0 glyph }{\fs20\cf0 (version, type of damage caused, what spell is stored).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Note: }{\fs20\cf0 Magic traps such as }{\i\fs20\cf0 glyph of warding }{\fs20\cf0 are hard to detect and disable. A rogue (only) can use the Search skill to find the }{\i\fs20\cf0 glyph }{\fs20\cf0 and Disable Device to thwart it. 
The DC in each case is 25 + spell level, or 28 for }{\i\fs20\cf0 glyph of warding}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par Depending on the version selected, a }{\i\fs20\cf0 glyph }{\fs20\cf0 either blasts the intruder or activates a spell.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Blast Glyph: }{\fs20\cf0 A }{\i\fs20\cf0 blast glyph }{\fs20\cf0 deals 1d8 points of damage per two caster levels (maximum 5d8) to th
e intruder and to all within 5 feet of him or her. This damage is acid, cold, fire, electricity, or sonic (caster\rquote 
s choice, made at time of casting). Each creature affected can attempt a Reflex save to take half damage. Spell resistance applies against this effect.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Spell Glyph: }{\fs20\cf0 You can store any harmful spell of 3rd level or lower that you know. All level-dependent features of the spell are based on your caster level at the time of casting the }{\i\fs20\cf0 glyph. }{\fs20\cf0 
If the spell has a target, it targets the intruder. If th
e spell has an area or an amorphous effect the area or effect is centered on the intruder. If the spell summons creatures, they appear as close as possible to the intruder and attack. Saving throws and spell resistance operate as normal, except that the D
C is based on the level of the spell stored in the }{\i\fs20\cf0 glyph}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 You trace the }{\i\fs20\cf0 glyph }{\fs20\cf0 with incense, which must first be sprinkled with powdered diamond worth at least 200 gp.
\par }{\cf0 
\par Glyph of Warding, Greater
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjuration
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 6
\par This spell functions like }{\i\fs20\cf0 glyph of warding, }{\fs20\cf0 except that a }{\i\fs20\cf0 greater blast glyph }{\fs20\cf0 deals up to 10d8 points of damage, and a }{\i\fs20\cf0 greater spell glyph }{\fs20\cf0 
can store a spell of 6th level or lower.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 You trace the }{\i\fs20\cf0 glyph }{\fs20\cf0 with incense, which must first be sprinkled with powdered diamond worth at least 400 gp.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Goodberry
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Drd 1
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, DF
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Targets:}{\fs20\cf0  2d4 fresh berries touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  One day/level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  None
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par Casting }{\i\fs20\cf0 goodberry }{\fs20\cf0 
upon a handful of freshly picked berries makes 2d4 of them magical. You (as well as any other druid of 3rd or higher level) can immediately discern which berries are affected. Each transmuted berry provides nourishment as if it were a normal meal for a Me
dium creature. The berry also cures 1 point of damage when eaten, subject to a maximum of 8 points of such curing in any 24-hour period.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Good Hope
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 3
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Targets:}{\fs20\cf0  One living creature/level, no two of which may be more than 30 ft. apart
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 min./level
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (harmless)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes (harmless)
\par This spell instills powerful hope in the subjects. Each affected creature gains a +2 morale bonus on saving throws, attack rolls, ability checks, skill checks, and weapon damage rolls.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Good hope }{\fs20\cf0 counters and dispels }{\i\fs20\cf0 crushing despair}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Grasping Hand
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Force]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 7, Strength 7
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, F/DF
\par This spell functions like }{\i\fs20\cf0 interposing hand, }{\fs20\cf0 except the hand can also grapple one opponent that you select. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 grasping hand }{\fs20\cf0 gets one grapple attack per round.
\par Its attack bonus to make contact equals your caster level + your Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma modifier (for wizards, clerics, and sorcerers, respectively), +10 for the hand\rquote s Strength score (31), \endash 
1 for being Large. Its grapple bonus is this same figure, except with a +4 modifier for being Large instead of \endash 1. The hand holds but does not harm creatures it grapples.
\par Directing the spell to a new target is a move action.
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 grasping hand }{\fs20\cf0 can also bull rush an opponent as }{\i\fs20\cf0 forceful hand }{\fs20\cf0 does, but at a +16 bonus on the Strength check (+10 for Strength 35, +4 for being Large
, and a +2 bonus for charging, which it always gets), or interpose itself as }{\i\fs20\cf0 interposing hand }{\fs20\cf0 does.
\par Clerics who cast this spell name it for their deities.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Focus: }{\fs20\cf0 A leather glove.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Grease
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Creation)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Brd 1, Sor/Wiz 1
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target or Area: }{\fs20\cf0 One object or a 10-ft. square
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round/level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  See text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  No
\par A }{\i\fs20\cf0 grease }{\fs20\cf0 spell covers a solid surface with a layer of slippery
 grease. Any creature in the area when the spell is cast must make a successful Reflex save or fall. This save is repeated on your turn each round that the creature remains within the area. A creature can walk within or through the area of grease at half 
normal speed with a DC 10 Balance check. Failure means it can\rquote t move that round (and must then make a Reflex save or fall), while failure by 5 or more means it falls (see the Balance skill for details).
\par The spell can also be used to create a greasy coating 
on an item. Material objects not in use are always affected by this spell, while an object wielded or employed by a creature receives a Reflex saving throw to avoid the effect. If the initial saving throw fails, the creature immediately drops the item. A 
saving throw must be made in each round that the creature attempts to pick up or use the }{\i\fs20\cf0 greased }{\fs20\cf0 item. A creature wearing }{\i\fs20\cf0 greased }{\fs20\cf0 
armor or clothing gains a +10 circumstance bonus on Escape Artist checks and on grapple checks made to resist or escape a grapple or to escape a pin.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A bit of pork rind or butter.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Greater (Spell Name)
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Any spell whose name begins with }{\i\fs20\cf0 greater }{\fs20\cf0 is alphabetized in this chapter according to the second word of the spell name. Thus, the description of a }{\i\fs20\cf0 greater }{\fs20\cf0 spell
 appears near the description of the spell on which it is based. Spell chains that have }{\i\fs20\cf0 greater }{\fs20\cf0 spells in them include those based on the spells }{\i\fs20\cf0 
arcane sight, command, dispel magic, glyph of warding, invisibility, magic fang, magic weapon, planar ally, planar binding, prying eyes, restoration, scrying, shadow conjuration, shadow evocation, shout, }{\fs20\cf0 and }{\i\fs20\cf0 teleport.
\par }{\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Guards and Wards
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjuration
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Sor/Wiz 6
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S, M, F
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  30 minutes
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Anywhere within the area to be warded
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area:}{\fs20\cf0  Up to 200 sq. ft./level (S)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  2 hours/level (D)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  See text
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  See text
\par This powerful spell is primarily used to defend your stronghold. The ward protects 200 square feet per caster level. The warded area can be as much as 20 feet high, and shaped as you desire. You can ward several stories of a stronghold by dividing the are
a among them; you must be somewhere within the area to be warded to cast the spell. The spell creates the following magical effects within the warded area.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Fog: }{\fs20\cf0 Fog fills all corridors, obscuring all sight, including darkvision, beyond 5 feet. A creature wi
thin 5 feet has concealment (attacks have a 20% miss chance). Creatures farther away have total concealment (50% miss chance, and the attacker cannot use sight to locate the target). Saving Throw: None. Spell Resistance: No.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Locks: }{\fs20\cf0 All doors in the warded area are }{\i\fs20\cf0 arcane locked. }{\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: None. Spell Resistance: No.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Webs: }{\fs20\cf0 Webs fill all stairs from top to bottom. These strands are identical with those created by the }{\i\fs20\cf0 web }{\fs20\cf0 spell, except that they regrow in 10 minutes if they are burned or torn away while the }{
\i\fs20\cf0 guards and wards }{\fs20\cf0 spell lasts. Saving Throw: Reflex negates; see text for }{\i\fs20\cf0 web}{\fs20\cf0 . Spell Resistance: No.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Confusion: }{\fs20\cf0 Where there are choices in direction\emdash such as a corridor intersection or side passage\emdash a minor }{\i\fs20\cf0 confusion-}{\fs20\cf0 type effect functions so as to ma
ke it 50% probable that intruders believe they are going in the opposite direction from the one they actually chose. This is an enchantment, mind-affecting effect. Saving Throw: None. Spell Resistance: Yes.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Lost Doors: }{\fs20\cf0 One door per caster level is covered by a }{\i\fs20\cf0 silent image }{\fs20\cf0 to appear as if it were a plain wall. Saving Throw: Will disbelief (if interacted with). Spell Resistance: No.
\par In addition, you can place your choice of one of the following five magical effects.
\par 1. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Dancing lights }{\fs20\cf0 in four corridors. You can designate a simple program that causes the lights to repeat as long as the }{\i\fs20\cf0 guards and wards }{\fs20\cf0 spell lasts. Saving Throw: None. Spell Resistance: No.
\par 2. A }{\i\fs20\cf0 magic mouth }{\fs20\cf0 in two places. Saving Throw: None. Spell Resistance: No.
\par 3. A }{\i\fs20\cf0 stinking cloud }{\fs20\cf0 in two places. The vapors appear in the places you designate; they return within 10 minutes if dispersed by wind while the }{\i\fs20\cf0 guards and wards }{\fs20\cf0 
spell lasts. Saving Throw: Fortitude negates; see text for }{\i\fs20\cf0 stinking cloud. }{\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: No.
\par 4. A }{\i\fs20\cf0 gust of wind }{\fs20\cf0 in one corridor or room. Saving Throw: Fortitude negates. Spell Resistance: Yes.
\par 5. A }{\i\fs20\cf0 suggestion }{\fs20\cf0 in one place. You select an area of up to 5 feet square, and any creature who enters or passes through the area receives the }{\i\fs20\cf0 suggestion }{\fs20\cf0 mentally. Saving Throw: Will negates
. Spell Resistance: Yes.
\par The whole warded area radiates strong magic of the abjuration school. A }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel magic }{\fs20\cf0 cast on a specific effect, if successful, removes only that effect. A successful }{\i\fs20\cf0 Mage\rquote s disjunction }{\fs20\cf0 
destroys the entire }{\i\fs20\cf0 guards and wards }{\fs20\cf0 effect.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 Burning incense, a small measure of brimstone and oil, a knotted string, and a small amount of blood.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Focus: }{\fs20\cf0 A small silver rod.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Guidance
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Divination
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Clr 0, Drd 0
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Creature touched
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 minute or until discharged
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (harmless)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par This spell imbues the subject with a touch of divine guidance. The creature gets a +1 competence bonus on a single attack roll, saving throw, or skill check. It must choose to use the bonus before making the roll to which it applies.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Gust of Wind
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Air]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level:}{\fs20\cf0  Drd 2, Sor/Wiz 2
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components:}{\fs20\cf0  V, S
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:}{\fs20\cf0  1 standard action
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range:}{\fs20\cf0  60 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect:}{\fs20\cf0  Line-shaped gust of severe wind emanating out from you to the extreme of the range
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:}{\fs20\cf0  1 round
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw:}{\fs20\cf0  Fortitude negates
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Yes
\par This spell creates a severe blast of air (approximately 50 mph) that originates from you, affecting all creatures in its path.
\par A Tiny or smaller creature on the ground is knocked down and rolled 1d4x10 feet, taking 1d4 points of nonlethal damage per 10 feet. If flying, a Tiny or smaller creature is blown back 2d6x10 feet and takes 2d6 points of nonlethal damage 
due to battering and buffeting.
\par Small creatures are knocked prone by the force of the wind, or if flying are blown back 1d6x10 feet.
\par Medium creatures are unable to move forward against the force of the wind, or if flying are blown back 1d6x5 feet.
\par Large or larger creatures may move normally within a }{\i\fs20\cf0 gust of wind }{\fs20\cf0 effect.
\par A }{\i\fs20\cf0 gust of wind }{\fs20\cf0 can\rquote t move a creature beyond the limit of its range.
\par Any creature, regardless of size, takes a \endash 4 penalty on ranged attacks and Listen checks in the area of a }{\i\fs20\cf0 gust of wind}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par The force of the }{\i\fs20\cf0 gust }{\fs20\cf0 automatically extinguishes candles, torches, and similar unprotected flames. It causes protected flames, such as those of lanterns, to dance wildly and has a 50% chance to extinguish those lights.
\par In addition to the effects noted, a }{\i\fs20\cf0 gust of wind }{\fs20\cf0 
can do anything that a sudden blast of wind would be expected to do. It can create a stinging spray of sand or dust, fan a large fire, overturn delicate awnings or hangings, heel over a small boat, and blow gases or vapors to the edge of its range.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Gust of wind }{\fs20\cf0 can be made permanent with a }{\i\fs20\cf0 permanency }{\fs20\cf0 spell.
\par }}