{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New{\*\falt Courier};}{\f53\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f54\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f56\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f57\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f58\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f59\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f60\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f69\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f70\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr{\*\falt Courier};}{\f72\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek{\*\falt Courier};}{\f73\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f74\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier};}{\f75\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic){\*\falt Courier};}{\f76\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic{\*\falt Courier};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{\*\cs10 
\additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Body Text;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar
\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Preformatted;}}{\info{\title BARD SPELLS}{\author AKSmith}
{\operator asmith}{\creatim\yr2003\mo6\dy10\hr16\min19}{\revtim\yr2003\mo10\dy30\hr10\min34}{\version9}{\edmins17}{\nofpages13}{\nofwords6204}{\nofchars-32766}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8223}}
\margl1080\margr1080\margt1080\margb1080 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1080\dgvorigin1080\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 
This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{\f0\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {SPELL LIST I
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 
\par An }{\fs20\cf0\super M}{\fs12\cf0  }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\fs20\cf0\super F}{\fs12\cf0  }{\fs20\cf0 appearing at the end of a spell\rquote s name in the spell lists denotes a spell with a material or focus component, respect
ively, that is not normally included in a spell component pouch. An }{\fs20\cf0\super X}{\fs12\cf0  }{\fs20\cf0 denotes a spell with an XP component paid by the caster.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Order of Presentation: }{\fs20\cf0 In the spell lists and the spell descriptions that follow them, the spells are presented in alphabetical order by name except for those belonging to certain spell chains.
\par When a spell\rquote s name begins with \'93lesser,\'94 \'93greater,\'94 or \'93mass,\'94 the spell description is alphabetized under the second word of the spell name instead.}{\i\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Hit Dice: }{\fs20\cf0 The term \'93Hit Dice\'94 is used synonymously with \'93character levels\'94
 for effects that affect a number of Hit Dice of creatures. Creatures with Hit Dice only from their race, not from classes, have character levels equal to their Hit Dice.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Caster Level:}{\fs20\cf0  A spell\rquote s power often depends on caster level, which is defined as the caster\rquote 
s class level for the purpose of casting a particular spell. A creature with no classes has a caster level equal to its Hit Dice unless otherwise specified. The word \'93level\'94 in the spell lists that follow always refers to caster level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Creatures and Characters: }{\fs20\cf0 The words \'93creature\'94 and \'93character\'94 are used synonymously in the spell descriptions.
\par }{\fs36\cf0 
\par BARD SPELLS
\par }{\cf0 0-LEVEL BARD SPELLS (CANTRIPS)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Dancing Lights:}{\fs20\cf0  Creates torches or other lights.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Daze:}{\fs20\cf0  Humanoid creature of 4 HD or less loses next action.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Detect Magic:}{\fs20\cf0  Detects spells and magic items within 60 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Flare:}{\fs20\cf0  Dazzles one creature (\endash 1 on attack rolls).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Ghost Sound:}{\fs20\cf0  Figment sounds.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Know Direction}{\fs20\cf0 : You discern north.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Light:}{\fs20\cf0  Object shines like a torch.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Lullaby:}{\fs20\cf0  Makes subject drowsy; \endash 5 on Spot and Listen checks, \endash 2 on Will saves against }{\i\fs20\cf0 sleep}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Mage Hand:}{\fs20\cf0  5-pound telekinesis.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Mending: }{\fs20\cf0 Makes minor repairs on an object.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Message: }{\fs20\cf0 Whispered conversation at distance.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Open/Close:}{\fs20\cf0  Opens or closes small or light things.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prestidigitation:}{\fs20\cf0  Performs minor tricks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Read Magic:}{\fs20\cf0  Read scrolls and spellbooks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject gains +1 on saving throws.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Instrument:}{\fs20\cf0  Summons one instrument of the caster\rquote s choice.
\par }{\cf0 1ST-LEVEL BARD SPELLS
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Alarm:}{\fs20\cf0  Wards an area for 2 hours/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Animate Rope:}{\fs20\cf0  Makes a rope move at your command.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cause Fear:}{\fs20\cf0  One creature of 5 HD or less flees for 1d4 rounds.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Charm Person: }{\fs20\cf0 Makes one person your friend.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Comprehend Languages:}{\fs20\cf0  You understand all spoken and written languages.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cure Light Wounds:}{\fs20\cf0  Cures 1d8 damage +1/level (max +5).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Detect Secret Doors:}{\fs20\cf0  Reveals hidden doors within 60 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Disguise Self:}{\fs20\cf0  Changes your appearance.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Erase: }{\fs20\cf0 Mundane or magical writing vanishes.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Expeditious Retreat:}{\fs20\cf0  Your speed increases by 30 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feather Fall:}{\fs20\cf0  Objects or creatures fall slowly.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Grease:}{\fs20\cf0  Makes 10-ft. square or one object slippery.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Hideous Laughter:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject loses actions for 1 round/ level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Hypnotism:}{\fs20\cf0  Fascinates 2d4 HD of creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Identify }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Determines properties of magic item.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Lesser Confusion:}{\fs20\cf0  One creature is }{\i\fs20\cf0 confused }{\fs20\cf0 for 1 round.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Magic Mouth }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Speaks once when triggered.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Magic Aura:}{\fs20\cf0  Alters object\rquote s magic aura.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Obscure Object: }{\fs20\cf0 Masks object against scrying.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Remove Fear: }{\fs20\cf0 Suppresses fear or gives +4 on saves against fear for one subject + one per four levels.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Silent Image:}{\fs20\cf0  Creates minor illusion of your design.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Sleep:}{\fs20\cf0  Puts 4 HD of creatures into magical slumber.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Monster I:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls extraplanar creature to fight for you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Undetectable Alignment:}{\fs20\cf0  Conceals alignment for 24 hours.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Unseen Servant: }{\fs20\cf0 Invisible force obeys your commands.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Ventriloquism: }{\fs20\cf0 Throws voice for 1 min./level.
\par }{\cf0 2ND-LEVEL BARD SPELLS
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Alter Self:}{\fs20\cf0  Assume form of a similar creature.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Animal Messenger:}{\fs20\cf0  Sends a Tiny animal to a specific place.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Animal Trance:}{\fs20\cf0  Fascinates 2d6 HD of animals.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Blindness/Deafness: }{\fs20\cf0 Makes subject blind or deaf.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Blur:}{\fs20\cf0  Attacks miss subject 20% of the time.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Calm Emotions:}{\fs20\cf0  Calms creatures, negating emotion effects.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cat\rquote s Grace:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject gains +4 to Dex for 1 min./level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cure Moderate Wounds:}{\fs20\cf0  Cures 2d8 damage +1/level (max +10).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Darkness:}{\fs20\cf0  20-ft. radius of supernatural shadow.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Daze Monster:}{\fs20\cf0  Living creature of 6 HD or less loses next action.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Delay Poison:}{\fs20\cf0  Stops poison from harming subject for 1 hour/ level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Detect Thoughts:}{\fs20\cf0  Allows \'93listening\'94 to surface thoughts.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Eagle\rquote s Splendor:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject gains +4 to Cha for 1 min./level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Enthrall:}{\fs20\cf0  Captivates all within 100 ft. + 10 ft./level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Fox\rquote s Cunning:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject gains +4 to Int for 1 min./level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Glitterdust:}{\fs20\cf0  Blinds creatures, outlines invisible creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Heroism:}{\fs20\cf0  Gives +2 on attack rolls, saves, skill checks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Hold Person:}{\fs20\cf0  Paralyzes one humanoid for 1 round/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Hypnotic Pattern:}{\fs20\cf0  Fascinates (2d4 + level) HD of creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Invisibility:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject is invisible for 1 min./level or until it attacks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Locate Object:}{\fs20\cf0  Senses direction toward object (specific or type).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Minor Image:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 silent image}{\fs20\cf0 , plus some sound.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Mirror Image:}{\fs20\cf0  Creates decoy duplicates of you (1d4 +1 per three levels, max 8).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Misdirection: }{\fs20\cf0 Misleads divinations for one creature or object.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Pyrotechnics:}{\fs20\cf0  Turns fire into blinding light or choking smoke.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Rage:}{\fs20\cf0  Gives +2 to Str and Con, +1 on Will saves, \endash 2 to AC.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Scare:}{\fs20\cf0  Panics creatures of less than 6 HD.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Shatter:}{\fs20\cf0  Sonic vibration damages objects or crystalline creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Silence:}{\fs20\cf0  Negates sound in 20-ft. radius.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Sound Burst:}{\fs20\cf0  Deals 1d8 sonic damage to subjects; may stun them.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Suggestion:}{\fs20\cf0  Compels subject to follow stated course of action.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Monster II:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls extraplanar creature to fight for you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Swarm:}{\fs20\cf0  Summons swarm of bats, rats, or spiders.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Tongues:}{\fs20\cf0  Speak any language.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Whispering Wind:}{\fs20\cf0  Sends a short message 1 mile/level.
\par }{\cf0 3RD-LEVEL BARD SPELLS
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Blink:}{\fs20\cf0  You randomly vanish and reappear for 1 round/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Charm Monster: }{\fs20\cf0 Makes monster believe it is your ally.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Clairaudience/Clairvoyance:}{\fs20\cf0  Hear or see at a distance for 1 min./level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Confusion:}{\fs20\cf0  Subjects behave oddly for 1 round/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Crushing Despair:}{\fs20\cf0  Subjects take \endash 2 on attack rolls, damage rolls, saves, and checks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cure Serious Wounds:}{\fs20\cf0  Cures 3d8 damage +1/level (max +15).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Daylight:}{\fs20\cf0  60-ft. radius of bright light.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Deep Slumber:}{\fs20\cf0  Puts 10 HD of creatures to sleep.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Dispel Magic:}{\fs20\cf0  Cancels magical spells and effects.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Displacement:}{\fs20\cf0  Attacks miss subject 50%.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Fear:}{\fs20\cf0  Subjects within cone flee for 1 round/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Gaseous Form:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject becomes insubstantial and can fly slowly.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Geas, Lesser:}{\fs20\cf0  Commands subject of 7 HD or less.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Glibness:}{\fs20\cf0  You gain +30 bonus on Bluff checks, and your lies can escape magical discernment.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Good Hope:}{\fs20\cf0  Subjects gain +2 on attack rolls, damage rolls, saves, and checks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Haste: }{\fs20\cf0 One creature/level moves faster, +1 on attack rolls, AC, and Reflex saves.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Illusory Script }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Only intended reader can decipher.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Invisibility Sphere:}{\fs20\cf0 Makes everyone within 10 ft. invisible.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Major Image:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 silent image}{\fs20\cf0 , plus sound, smell and thermal effects.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Phantom Steed: }{\fs20\cf0 Magic horse appears for 1 hour/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Remove Curse:}{\fs20\cf0  Frees object or person from curse.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Scrying }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Spies on subject from a distance.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Sculpt Sound:}{\fs20\cf0  Creates new sounds or changes existing ones.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Secret Page:}{\fs20\cf0  Changes one page to hide its real content.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 See Invisibility:}{\fs20\cf0  Reveals invisible creatures or objects.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Sepia Snake Sigil }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Creates text symbol that immobilizes reader.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Slow:}{\fs20\cf0  One subject/level takes only one action/round, \endash 1 to AC, reflex saves, and attack rolls.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Speak with Animals:}{\fs20\cf0  You can communicate with animals.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Monster III:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls extraplanar creature to fight for you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Tiny Hut:}{\fs20\cf0  Creates shelter for ten creatures.
\par }{\cf0 4TH-LEVEL BARD SPELLS
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Break Enchantment:}{\fs20\cf0  Frees subjects from enchantments, alterations, curses, and petrification.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cure Critical Wounds:}{\fs20\cf0  Cures 4d8 damage +1/level (max +20).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Detect Scrying:}{\fs20\cf0  Alerts you of magical eavesdropping.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Dimension Door:}{\fs20\cf0  Teleports you short distance.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Dominate Person:}{\fs20\cf0  Controls humanoid telepathically.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Freedom of Movement:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject moves normally despite impediments.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Hallucinatory Terrain:}{\fs20\cf0  Makes one type of terrain appear like another (field into forest, or the like).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Hold Monster:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 hold person}{\fs20\cf0 , but any creature.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Invisibility, Greater:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 invisibility, }{\fs20\cf0 but subject can attack and stay invisible.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Legend Lore }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs12\cf0  }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Lets you learn tales about a person, place, or thing.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Locate Creature:}{\fs20\cf0  Indicates direction to familiar creature.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Modify Memory:}{\fs20\cf0  Changes 5 minutes of subject\rquote s memories.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Neutralize Poison:}{\fs20\cf0  Immunizes subject against poison, detoxifies venom in or on subject.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Rainbow Pattern:}{\fs20\cf0  Lights fascinate 24 HD of creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Repel Vermin:}{\fs20\cf0  Insects, spiders, and other vermin stay 10 ft. away.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Secure Shelter:}{\fs20\cf0  Creates sturdy cottage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Shadow Conjuration:}{\fs20\cf0  Mimics conjuring below 4th level, but only 20% real.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Shout:}{\fs20\cf0  Deafens all within cone and deals 5d6 sonic damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Speak with Plants:}{\fs20\cf0  You can talk to normal plants and plant creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Monster IV:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls extraplanar creature to fight for you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Zone of Silence:}{\fs20\cf0  Keeps eavesdroppers from overhearing conversations.
\par }{\cf0 5TH-LEVEL BARD SPELLS
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cure Light Wounds, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  Cures 1d8 damage +1/level for many creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Dispel Magic, Greater:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel magic, }{\fs20\cf0 but +20 on check.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Dream:}{\fs20\cf0  Sends message to anyone sleeping.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 False Vision }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Fools scrying with an illusion.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Heroism, Greater:}{\fs20\cf0  Gives +4 bonus on attack rolls, saves, skill checks; immunity to fear; temporary hp.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Mind Fog:}{\fs20\cf0  Subjects in fog get \endash 10 to Wis and Will checks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Mirage Arcana:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 hallucinatory terrain, }{\fs20\cf0 plus structures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Mislead:}{\fs20\cf0  Turns you invisible and creates illusory double.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Nightmare:}{\fs20\cf0  Sends vision dealing 1d10 damage, fatigue.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Persistent Image:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 major image}{\fs20\cf0 , but no concentration required.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Seeming:}{\fs20\cf0  Changes appearance of one person per two levels.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Shadow Evocation:}{\fs20\cf0  Mimics evocation of lower than 5th level, but only 20% real.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Shadow Walk:}{\fs20\cf0  Step into shadow to travel rapidly.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Song of Discord:}{\fs20\cf0  Forces targets to attack each other.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Suggestion, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 suggestion, }{\fs20\cf0 plus one subject/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Monster V:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls extraplanar creature to fight for you.
\par }{\cf0 6TH-LEVEL BARD SPELLS
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Analyze Dweomer }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Reveals magical aspects of subject.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Animate Objects:}{\fs20\cf0  Objects attack your foes.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cat\rquote s Grace, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 cat\rquote s grace}{\fs20\cf0 , affects one subject/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Charm Monster, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 charm monster, }{\fs20\cf0 but all within 30 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cure Moderate Wounds, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  Cures 2d8 damage +1/level for many creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Eagle\rquote s Splendor, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 eagle\rquote s splendor}{\fs20\cf0 , affects one subject/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Eyebite:}{\fs20\cf0  Target becomes panicked, sickened, and comatose.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Find the Path:}{\fs20\cf0  Shows most direct way to a location.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Fox\rquote s Cunning, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 fox\rquote s cunning}{\fs20\cf0 , affects one subject/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Geas/Quest:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 lesser geas, }{\fs20\cf0 plus it affects any creature.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Heroes\rquote  Feast:}{\fs20\cf0  Food for one creature/level cures and grants combat bonuses}{\i\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Irresistible Dance:}{\fs20\cf0  Forces subject to dance.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Permanent Image:}{\fs20\cf0  Includes sight, sound, and smell.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Programmed Image }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 major image}{\fs20\cf0 , plus triggered by event.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Project Image:}{\fs20\cf0  Illusory double can talk and cast spells.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Scrying, Greater:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 scrying}{\fs20\cf0 , but faster and longer.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Shout, Greater:}{\fs20\cf0  Devastating yell deals 10d6 sonic damage; stuns creatures, damages objects.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Monster VI:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls extraplanar creature to fight for you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Sympathetic Vibration:}{\fs20\cf0  Deals 2d10 damage/round to freestanding structure.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Veil:}{\fs20\cf0  Changes appearance of group of creatures.
\par }{\fs36\cf0 
\par CLERIC SPELLS
\par }{\cf0 0-LEVEL CLERIC SPELLS (ORISONS)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Create Water:}{\fs20\cf0  Creates 2 gallons/level of pure water.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cure Minor Wounds:}{\fs20\cf0  Cures 1 point of damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Detect Magic:}{\fs20\cf0  Detects spells and magic items within 60 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Detect Poison:}{\fs20\cf0  Detects poison in one creature or object.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Guidance:}{\fs20\cf0  +1 on one attack roll, saving throw, or skill check.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Inflict Minor Wounds:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch attack, 1 point of damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Light:}{\fs20\cf0  Object shines like a torch.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Mending: }{\fs20\cf0 Makes minor repairs on an object.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Purify Food and Drink:}{\fs20\cf0  Purifies 1 cu. ft./level of food or water.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Read Magic:}{\fs20\cf0  Read scrolls and spellbooks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject gains +1 on saving throws.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Virtue:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject gains 1 temporary hp.
\par }{\cf0 1ST-LEVEL CLERIC SPELLS
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bane:}{\fs20\cf0  Enemies take \endash 1 on attack rolls and saves against fear.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bless:}{\fs20\cf0  Allies gain +1 on attack rolls and saves against fear.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bless Water }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 : }{\fs20\cf0 Makes holy water.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cause Fear:}{\fs20\cf0  One creature of 5 HD or less flees for 1d4 rounds.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Command:}{\fs20\cf0  One subject obeys selected command for 1 round.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Comprehend Languages:}{\fs20\cf0  You understand all spoken and written languages.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cure Light Wounds:}{\fs20\cf0  Cures 1d8 damage +1/level (max +5).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Curse Water }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 : }{\fs20\cf0 Makes unholy water.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Deathwatch:}{\fs20\cf0  Reveals how near death subjects within 30 ft. are.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Detect Chaos/Evil/Good/Law:}{\fs20\cf0  Reveals creatures, spells, or objects of selected alignment.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Detect Undead:}{\fs20\cf0  Reveals undead within 60 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Divine Favor:}{\fs20\cf0  You gain +1 per three levels on attack and damage rolls.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Doom:}{\fs20\cf0  One subject takes \endash 2 on attack rolls, damage rolls, saves, and checks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Endure Elements:}{\fs20\cf0  Exist comfortably in hot or cold environments.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Entropic Shield:}{\fs20\cf0  Ranged attacks against you have 20% miss chance.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Hide from Undead:}{\fs20\cf0  Undead can\rquote t perceive one subject/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Inflict Light Wounds: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch deals 1d8 damage +1/level (max +5).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Magic Stone:}{\fs20\cf0  Three stones gain +1 on attack, deal 1d6 +1 damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Magic Weapon: }{\fs20\cf0 Weapon gains +1 bonus.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Obscuring Mist:}{\fs20\cf0  Fog surrounds you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Protection from Chaos/Evil/Good/Law:}{\fs20\cf0  +2 to AC and saves, counter mind control, hedge out elementals and outsiders.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Remove Fear:}{\fs20\cf0  Suppresses fear or gives +4 on saves against fear for one subject + one per four levels.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Sanctuary:}{\fs20\cf0  Opponents can\rquote t attack you, and you can\rquote t attack.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Shield of Faith:}{\fs20\cf0  Aura grants +2 or higher deflection bonus.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Monster I:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls extraplanar creature to fight for you.
\par }{\cf0 2ND-LEVEL CLERIC SPELLS
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Aid:}{\fs20\cf0  +1 on attack rolls and saves against fear, 1d8 temporary hp +1/level (max +10).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Align Weapon: }{\fs20\cf0 Weapon becomes good, evil, lawful, or chaotic.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Augury }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs12\cf0  }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Learns whether an action will be good or bad.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bear\rquote s Endurance:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject gains +4 to Con for 1 min./level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bull\rquote s Strength:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject gains +4 to Str for 1 min./level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Calm Emotions:}{\fs20\cf0  Calms creatures, negating emotion effects.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Consecrate }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Fills area with positive energy, making undead weaker.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cure Moderate Wounds:}{\fs20\cf0  Cures 2d8 damage +1/level (max +10).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Darkness:}{\fs20\cf0  20-ft. radius of supernatural shadow.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Death Knell:}{\fs20\cf0  Kills dying creature; you gain 1d8 temporary hp, +2 to Str, and +1 level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Delay Poison:}{\fs20\cf0  Stops poison from harming subject for 1 hour/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Desecrate }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Fills area with negative energy, making undead stronger.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Eagle\rquote s Splendor:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject gains +4 to Cha for 1 min./level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Enthrall:}{\fs20\cf0  Captivates all within 100 ft. + 10 ft./level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Find Traps:}{\fs20\cf0  Notice traps as a rogue does.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Gentle Repose:}{\fs20\cf0  Preserves one corpse.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Hold Person:}{\fs20\cf0  Paralyzes one humanoid for 1 round/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Inflict Moderate Wounds:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch attack, 2d8 damage +1/level (max +10).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Make Whole:}{\fs20\cf0  Repairs an object.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Owl\rquote s Wisdom:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject gains +4 to Wis for 1 min./level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Remove Paralysis:}{\fs20\cf0  Frees one or more creatures from paralysis or }{\i\fs20\cf0 slow }{\fs20\cf0 effect.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Resist Energy:}{\fs20\cf0  Ignores 10 (or more) points of damage/attack from specified energy type.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Restoration, Lesser:}{\fs20\cf0  Dispels magical ability penalty or repairs 1d4 ability damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Shatter:}{\fs20\cf0  Sonic vibration damages objects or crystalline creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Shield Other }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  You take half of subject\rquote s damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Silence:}{\fs20\cf0  Negates sound in 20-ft. radius.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Sound Burst:}{\fs20\cf0  Deals 1d8 sonic damage to subjects; may stun them.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spiritual Weapon: }{\fs20\cf0 Magic weapon attacks on its own.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Status: }{\fs20\cf0 Monitors condition, position of allies.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Monster II:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls extraplanar creature to fight for you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Undetectable Alignment:}{\fs20\cf0  Conceals alignment for 24 hours.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Zone of Truth:}{\fs20\cf0  Subjects within range cannot lie.
\par }{\cf0 3RD-LEVEL CLERIC SPELLS
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Animate Dead }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Creates undead skeletons and zombies.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bestow Curse:}{\fs20\cf0  \endash 6 to an ability score; \endash 4 on attack rolls, saves, and checks; or 50% chance of losing each action.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Blindness/Deafness: }{\fs20\cf0 Makes subject blinded or deafened.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Contagion:}{\fs20\cf0  Infects subject with chosen disease.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Continual Flame }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 : }{\fs20\cf0 Makes a permanent, heatless torch.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Create Food and Water:}{\fs20\cf0  Feeds three humans (or one horse)/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cure Serious Wounds:}{\fs20\cf0  Cures 3d8 damage +1/level (max +15).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Daylight:}{\fs20\cf0  60-ft. radius of bright light.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Deeper Darkness:}{\fs20\cf0  Object sheds supernatural shadow in 60-ft. radius.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Dispel Magic:}{\fs20\cf0  Cancels spells and magical effects.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Glyph of Warding }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Inscription harms those who pass it.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Helping Hand:}{\fs20\cf0  Ghostly hand leads subject to you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Inflict Serious Wounds:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch attack, 3d8 damage +1/level (max +15).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Invisibility Purge:}{\fs20\cf0  Dispels invisibility within 5 ft./level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Locate Object:}{\fs20\cf0  Senses direction toward object (specific or type).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Magic Circle against Chaos/Evil/Good/Law:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 protection }{\fs20\cf0 spells, but 10-ft. radius and 10 min./level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Magic Vestment:}{\fs20\cf0  Armor or shield gains +1 enhancement per four levels.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Meld into Stone:}{\fs20\cf0  You and your gear merge with stone.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Obscure Object: }{\fs20\cf0 Masks object against scrying.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Prayer:}{\fs20\cf0  Allies +1 bonus on most rolls, enemies \endash 1 penalty.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Protection from Energy:}{\fs20\cf0  Absorb 12 points/level of damage from one kind of energy.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Remove Blindness/Deafness:}{\fs20\cf0  Cures normal or magical conditions.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Remove Curse:}{\fs20\cf0  Frees object or person from curse.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Remove Disease:}{\fs20\cf0  Cures all diseases affecting subject.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Searing Light:}{\fs20\cf0  Ray deals 1d8/two levels damage, more against undead.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Speak with Dead:}{\fs20\cf0  Corpse answers one question/two levels.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Stone Shape:}{\fs20\cf0  Sculpts stone into any shape.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Monster III:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls extraplanar creature to fight for you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Water Breathing:}{\fs20\cf0  Subjects can breathe underwater.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Water Walk:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject treads on water as if solid.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Wind Wall:}{\fs20\cf0  Deflects arrows, smaller creatures, and gases.
\par }{\cf0 4TH-LEVEL CLERIC SPELLS
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Air Walk:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject treads on air as if solid (climb at 45-degree angle).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Control Water:}{\fs20\cf0  Raises or lowers bodies of water.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cure Critical Wounds:}{\fs20\cf0  Cures 4d8 damage +1/level (max +20).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Death Ward:}{\fs20\cf0  Grants immunity to death spells and negative energy effects.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Dimensional Anchor:}{\fs20\cf0  Bars extradimensional movement.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Discern Lies:}{\fs20\cf0  Reveals deliberate falsehoods.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Dismissal:}{\fs20\cf0  Forces a creature to return to native plane.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Divination }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Provides useful advice for specific proposed actions.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Divine Power:}{\fs20\cf0  You gain attack bonus, +6 to Str, and 1 hp/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Freedom of Movement:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject moves normally despite impediments.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Giant Vermin:}{\fs20\cf0  Turns centipedes, scorpions, or spiders into giant vermin.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Imbue with Spell Ability:}{\fs20\cf0  Transfer spells to subject.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Inflict Critical Wounds:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch attack, 4d8 damage +1/level (max +20).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Magic Weapon, Greater:}{\fs20\cf0  +1 bonus/four levels (max +5).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Neutralize Poison:}{\fs20\cf0  Immunizes subject against poison, detoxifies venom in or on subject.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Planar Ally, Lesser }{\b\fs20\cf0\super X}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Exchange services with a 6 HD extraplanar creature.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Poison:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch deals 1d10 Con damage, repeats in 1 min.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Repel Vermin:}{\fs20\cf0  Insects, spiders, and other vermin stay 10 ft. away.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Restoration }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Restores level and ability score drains.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Sending:}{\fs20\cf0  Delivers short message anywhere, instantly.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Immunity:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject is immune to one spell per four levels.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Monster IV:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls extraplanar creature to fight for you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Tongues:}{\fs20\cf0  Speak any language.
\par }{\cf0 5TH-LEVEL CLERIC SPELLS
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Atonement }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs12\cf0  }{\b\fs20\cf0\super X}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Removes burden of misdeeds from subject.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Break Enchantment:}{\fs20\cf0  Frees subjects from enchantments, alterations, curses, and petrification.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Command, Greater:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 command, }{\fs20\cf0 but affects one subject/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Commune }{\b\fs20\cf0\super X}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Deity answers one yes-or-no question/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cure Light Wounds, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  Cures 1d8 damage +1/level for many creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Dispel Chaos/Evil/Good/Law:}{\fs20\cf0  +4 bonus against attacks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Disrupting Weapon: }{\fs20\cf0 Melee weapon destroys undead.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Flame Strike:}{\fs20\cf0  Smite foes with divine fire (1d6/level damage).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Hallow }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Designates location as holy.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Inflict Light Wounds, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  Deals 1d8 damage +1/level to many creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Insect Plague:}{\fs20\cf0  Locust swarms attack creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Mark of Justice:}{\fs20\cf0  Designates action that will trigger }{\i\fs20\cf0 curse }{\fs20\cf0 on subject.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Plane Shift }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  As many as eight subjects travel to another plane.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Raise Dead }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Restores life to subject who died as long as one day/level ago.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Righteous Might:}{\fs20\cf0  Your size increases, and you gain combat bonuses.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Scrying }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Spies on subject from a distance.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Slay Living:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch attack kills subject.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject gains SR 12 + level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Monster V:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls extraplanar creature to fight for you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Symbol of Pain }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Triggered rune wracks nearby creatures with pain.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Symbol of Sleep }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Triggered rune puts nearby creatures into catatonic slumber.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 True Seeing }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Lets you see all things as they really are.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Unhallow }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Designates location as unholy.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Wall of Stone:}{\fs20\cf0  Creates a stone wall that can be shaped.
\par }{\cf0 6TH-LEVEL CLERIC SPELLS
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Animate Objects:}{\fs20\cf0  Objects attack your foes.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Antilife Shell:}{\fs20\cf0  10-ft. field hedges out living creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Banishment:}{\fs20\cf0  Banishes 2 HD/level of extraplanar creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bear\rquote s Endurance, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 bear\rquote s endurance}{\fs20\cf0 , affects one subject/ level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Blade Barrier: }{\fs20\cf0 Wall of blades deals 1d6/level damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bull\rquote s Strength, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 bull\rquote s strength}{\fs20\cf0 , affects one subject/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Create Undead:}{\fs20\cf0  Create ghouls, ghasts, mummies, or mohrgs.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cure Moderate Wounds, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  Cures 2d8 damage +1/level for many creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Dispel Magic, Greater:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel magic, }{\fs20\cf0 but up to +20 on check.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Eagle\rquote s Splendor, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 eagle\rquote s splendor}{\fs20\cf0 , affects one subject/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Find the Path:}{\fs20\cf0  Shows most direct way to a location.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Forbiddance }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Blocks planar travel, damages creatures of different alignment.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Geas/Quest:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 lesser geas, }{\fs20\cf0 plus it affects any creature.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Glyph of Warding, Greater:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 glyph of warding}{\fs20\cf0 , but up to 10d8 damage or 6th-level spell.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Harm:}{\fs20\cf0  Deals 10 points/level damage to target.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Heal:}{\fs20\cf0  Cures 10 points/level of damage, all diseases and mental conditions.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Heroes\rquote  Feast:}{\fs20\cf0  Food for one creature/level cures and grants combat bonuses}{\i\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Inflict Moderate Wounds, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  Deals 2d8 damage +1/level to many creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Owl\rquote s Wisdom, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 owl\rquote s wisdom}{\fs20\cf0 , affects one subject/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Planar Ally }{\b\fs20\cf0\super X}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 lesser planar ally, }{\fs20\cf0 but up to 12 HD.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Monster VI:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls extraplanar creature to fight for you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Symbol of Fear }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Triggered rune panics nearby creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Symbol of Persuasion }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Triggered rune charms nearby creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Undeath to Death }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Destroys 1d4 HD/level undead (max 20d4).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Wind Walk:}{\fs20\cf0  You and your allies turn vaporous and travel fast.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Word of Recall:}{\fs20\cf0  Teleports you back to designated place.
\par }{\cf0 7TH-LEVEL CLERIC SPELLS
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Blasphemy:}{\fs20\cf0  Kills, paralyzes, weakens, or dazes nonevil subjects.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Control Weather:}{\fs20\cf0  Changes weather in local area.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cure Serious Wounds, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  Cures 3d8 damage +1/level for many creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Destruction }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Kills subject and destroys remains.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Dictum:}{\fs20\cf0  Kills, paralyzes, slows, or deafens nonlawful subjects.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Ethereal Jaunt:}{\fs20\cf0  You become ethereal for 1 round/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Holy Word:}{\fs20\cf0  Kills, paralyzes, blinds, or deafens nongood subjects.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Inflict Serious Wounds, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  Deals 3d8 damage +1/level to many creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Refuge }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Alters item to transport its possessor to you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Regenerate:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject\rquote s severed limbs grow back, cures 4d8 damage +1/level (max +35).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Repulsion:}{\fs20\cf0  Creatures can\rquote t approach you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Restoration, Greater }{\b\fs20\cf0\super X}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 restoration, }{\fs20\cf0 plus restores all levels and ability scores.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Resurrection }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Fully restore dead subject.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Scrying, Greater:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 scrying}{\fs20\cf0 , but faster and longer.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Monster VII:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls extraplanar creature to fight for you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Symbol of Stunning }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Triggered rune stuns nearby creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Symbol of Weakness }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Triggered rune weakens nearby creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Word of Chaos:}{\fs20\cf0  Kills, }{\i\fs20\cf0 confuses, }{\fs20\cf0 stuns, or deafens nonchaotic subjects.
\par }{\cf0 8TH-LEVEL CLERIC SPELLS
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Antimagic Field:}{\fs20\cf0  Negates magic within 10 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cloak of Chaos }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  +4 to AC, +4 resistance, and SR 25 against lawful spells.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Create Greater Undead }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Create shadows, wraiths, spectres, or devourers.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cure Critical Wounds, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  Cures 4d8 damage +1/level for many creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Dimensional Lock:}{\fs20\cf0  Teleportation and interplanar travel blocked for one day/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Discern Location:}{\fs20\cf0  Reveals exact location of creature or object.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Earthquake:}{\fs20\cf0  Intense tremor shakes 80-ft.-radius.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Fire Storm:}{\fs20\cf0  Deals 1d6/level fire damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Holy Aura }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  +4 to AC, +4 resistance, and SR 25 against evil spells.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Planar Ally, Greater }{\b\fs20\cf0\super X}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 lesser planar ally, }{\fs20\cf0 but up to 18 HD.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Inflict Critical Wounds, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  Deals 4d8 damage +1/level to many creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Shield of Law }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  +4 to AC, +4 resistance, and SR 25 against chaotic spells.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Immunity, Greater:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 spell immunity, }{\fs20\cf0 but up to 8th-level spells.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Monster VIII:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls extraplanar creature to fight for you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Symbol of Death }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Triggered rune slays nearby creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Symbol of Insanity }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Triggered rune renders nearby creatures insane.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Unholy Aura }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  +4 to AC, +4 resistance, and SR 25 against good spells.
\par }{\cf0 9TH-LEVEL CLERIC SPELLS
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Astral Projection }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Projects you and companions onto Astral Plane.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Energy Drain:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject gains 2d4 negative levels.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Etherealness:}{\fs20\cf0  Travel to Ethereal Plane with companions.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Gate }{\b\fs20\cf0\super X}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Connects two planes for travel or summoning.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Heal, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 heal}{\fs20\cf0 , but with several subjects.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Implosion:}{\fs20\cf0  Kills one creature/round.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Miracle }{\b\fs20\cf0\super X}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Requests a deity\rquote s intercession.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Soul Bind }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Traps newly dead soul to prevent }{\i\fs20\cf0 resurrection}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Storm of Vengeance:}{\fs20\cf0  Storm rains acid, lightning, and hail.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Monster IX:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls extraplanar creature to fight for you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 True Resurrection }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 resurrection}{\fs20\cf0 , plus remains aren\rquote t needed.
\par }{\fs36\cf0 
\par CLERIC DOMAINS
\par }{\cf0 AIR DOMAIN
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Granted Powers:}{\fs20\cf0  Turn or destroy earth creatures as a good cleric turns undead. Rebuke, command, or bolste
r air creatures as an evil cleric rebukes undead. Use these abilities a total number of times per day equal to 3 + your Charisma modifier. This granted power is a supernatural ability.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Air Domain Spells
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 1 Obscuring Mist:}{\fs20\cf0  Fog surrounds you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 2 Wind Wall:}{\fs20\cf0  Deflects arrows, smaller creatures, and gases.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 3 Gaseous Form:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject becomes insubstantial and can fly slowly.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 4 Air Walk: }{\fs20\cf0 Subject treads on air as if solid (climb at 45-degree angle).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 5 Control Winds:}{\fs20\cf0  Change wind direction and speed.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 6 Chain Lightning: }{\fs20\cf0 1d6/level damage; 1 secondary bolt/level each deals half damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 7 Control Weather: }{\fs20\cf0 Changes weather in local area.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 8 Whirlwind: }{\fs20\cf0 Cyclone deals damage and can pick up creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 9 Elemental Swarm*:}{\fs20\cf0  Summons multiple elementals.
\par *Cast as an air spell only.
\par }{\cf0 
\par ANIMAL DOMAIN
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Granted Powers:}{\fs20\cf0  You can use }{\i\fs20\cf0 speak with animals }{\fs20\cf0 once per day as a spell-like ability.
\par Add Knowledge (nature) to your list of cleric class skills.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Animal Domain Spells
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 1 Calm Animals:}{\fs20\cf0  Calms (2d4 + level) HD of animals.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 2 Hold Animal: }{\fs20\cf0 Paralyzes one animal for 1 round/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 3 Dominate Animal:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject animal obeys silent mental commands.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 4 Summon Nature\rquote s Ally IV*:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls creature to fight.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 5 Commune with Nature: }{\fs20\cf0 Learn about terrain for 1 mile/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 6 Antilife Shell: }{\fs20\cf0 10-ft. field hedges out living creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 7 Animal Shapes:}{\fs20\cf0  One ally/level polymorphs into chosen animal.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 8 Summon Nature\rquote s Ally VIII*:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls creature to fight.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 9 Shapechange }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Transforms you into any creature, and change forms once per round.
\par *Can only summon animals.
\par }{\cf0 
\par CHAOS DOMAIN
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Granted Power:}{\fs20\cf0  You cast chaos spells at +1 caster level.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Chaos Domain Spells
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 1 Protection from Law:}{\fs20\cf0  +2 to AC and saves, counter mind control, hedge out elementals and outsiders.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 2 Shatter:}{\fs20\cf0  Sonic vibration damages objects or crystalline creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 3 Magic Circle against Law:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 protection }{\fs20\cf0 spells, but 10-ft. radius and 10 min./level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 4 Chaos Hammer:}{\fs20\cf0  Damages and staggers lawful creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 5 Dispel Law: }{\fs20\cf0 +4 bonus against attacks by lawful creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 6 Animate Objects:}{\fs20\cf0  Objects attack your foes.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 7 Word of Chaos:}{\fs20\cf0  Kills, }{\i\fs20\cf0 confuses, }{\fs20\cf0 stuns, or deafens nonchaotic subjects.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 8 Cloak of Chaos }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs20\cf0 : }{\fs20\cf0 +4 to AC, +4 resistance, SR 25 against lawful spells.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 9 Summon Monster IX*:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls extraplanar creature to fight for you.
\par *Cast as a chaos spell only.
\par }{\cf0 
\par DEATH DOMAIN
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Granted Power:}{\fs20\cf0  You may u
se a death touch once per day. Your death touch is a supernatural ability that produces a death effect. You must succeed on a melee touch attack against a living creature (using the rules for touch spells). When you touch, roll 1d6 per cleric level you po
ssess. If the total at least equals the creature\rquote s current hit points, it dies (no save).
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Death Domain Spells
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 1 Cause Fear: }{\fs20\cf0 One creature of 5 HD or less flees for 1d4 rounds.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 2 Death Knell:}{\fs20\cf0  Kill dying creature and gain 1d8 temporary hp, +2 to Str, and +1 caster level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 3 Animate Dead }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Creates undead skeletons and zombies.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 4 Death Ward: }{\fs20\cf0 Grants immunity to death spells and negative energy effects.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 5 Slay Living: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch attack kills subject.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 6 Create Undead }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 : }{\fs20\cf0 Create ghouls, ghasts, mummies, or mohrgs.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 7 Destruction }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Kills subject and destroys remains.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 8 Create Greater Undead }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Create shadows, wraiths, spectres, r devourers.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 9 Wail of the Banshee: }{\fs20\cf0 Kills one creature/level.
\par }{\cf0 
\par DESTRUCTION DOMAIN
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Granted Power:}{\fs20\cf0  You gain the smite power, the supernatural ability t
o make a single melee attack with a +4 bonus on attack rolls and a bonus on damage rolls equal to your cleric level (if you hit). You must declare the smite before making the attack. This ability is usable once per day.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Destruction Domain Spells
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 1 Inflict Light Wounds:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch attack, 1d8 damage +1/level (max +5).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 2 Shatter: }{\fs20\cf0 Sonic vibration damages objects or crystalline creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 3 Contagion:}{\fs20\cf0  Infects subject with chosen disease.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 4 Inflict Critical Wounds:}{\fs20\cf0  Touch attack, 4d8 damage +1/level (max +20).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 5 Inflict Light Wounds, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  Deals 1d8 damage +1/level to any creatures.
\par 6}{\b\fs20\cf0  Harm:}{\fs20\cf0  Deals 10 points/level damage to target.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 7 Disintegrate: }{\fs20\cf0 Makes one creature or object vanish.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 8 Earthquake:}{\fs20\cf0  Intense tremor shakes 80-ft.-radius.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 9 Implosion:}{\fs20\cf0  Kills one creature/round.
\par }{\cf0 
\par EARTH DOMAIN
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Granted Power:}{\fs20\cf0 
 Turn or destroy air creatures as a good cleric turns undead. Rebuke, command, or bolster earth creatures as an evil cleric rebukes undead. Use these abilities a total number of times per day equal to 3 + your Charisma modifie
r. This granted power is a supernatural ability.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Earth Domain Spells
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 1 Magic Stone:}{\fs20\cf0  Three stones become +1 projectiles, 1d6 +1 damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 2 Soften Earth and Stone: }{\fs20\cf0 Turns stone to clay or dirt to sand or mud.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 3 Stone Shape: }{\fs20\cf0 Sculpts stone into any shape.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 4 Spike Stones:}{\fs20\cf0  Creatures in area take 1d8 damage, may be }{\i\fs20\cf0 lowed.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 5 Wall of Stone: }{\fs20\cf0 Creates a stone wall that can be shaped.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 6 Stoneskin }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Ignore 10 points of damage per attack.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 7 Earthquake:}{\fs20\cf0  Intense tremor shakes 80-ft.-radius.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 8 Iron Body:}{\fs20\cf0  Your body becomes living iron.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 9 Elemental Swarm*: }{\fs20\cf0 Summons multiple elementals.
\par *Cast as an earth spell only.
\par }{\cf0 
\par EVIL DOMAIN
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Granted Power:}{\fs20\cf0  You cast evil spells at +1 caster level.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Evil Domain Spells
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 1 Protection from Good: }{\fs20\cf0 +2 to AC and saves, counter mind control, hedge out elementals and outsiders.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 2 Desecrate }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Fills area with negative energy, making undead stronger.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 3 Magic Circle against Good: }{\fs20\cf0 As }{\i\fs20\cf0 protection }{\fs20\cf0 spells, but 10-ft. radius and 10 min./level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 4 Unholy Blight:}{\fs20\cf0  Damages and sickens good creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 5 Dispel Good:}{\fs20\cf0  +4 bonus against attacks by good creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 6 Create Undead }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 : }{\fs20\cf0 Create ghouls, ghasts, mummies, or mohrgs.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 7 Blasphemy: }{\fs20\cf0 Kills, paralyzes, weakens, or dazes nonevil subjects.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 8 Unholy Aura }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs20\cf0 : }{\fs20\cf0 +4 to AC, +4 resistance, SR 25 against good spells.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 9 Summon Monster IX*:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls extraplanar creature to fight for you.
\par *Cast as an evil spell only.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 FIRE DOMAIN
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Granted Power:}{\fs20\cf0  Turn or destroy water creatures as a good cleric turns undead. Rebuke, command, or bolster fire creatures as an evil cleric rebukes undead. Use these a
bilities a total number of times per day equal to 3 + your Charisma modifier. This granted power is a supernatural ability.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Fire Domain Spells
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 1 Burning Hands:}{\fs20\cf0  1d4/level fire damage (max 5d4).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 2 Produce Flame: }{\fs20\cf0 1d6 damage +1/ level, touch or thrown.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 3 Resist Energy*:}{\fs20\cf0  Ignores 10 (or more) points of damage/attack from specified energy type.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 4 Wall of Fire: }{\fs20\cf0 Deals 2d4 fire damage out to 10 ft. and 1d4 out to 20 ft. Passing through wall deals 2d6 damage +1/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 5 Fire Shield: }{\fs20\cf0 Creatures attacking you take fire damage; you\rquote re protected from heat or cold.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 6 Fire Seeds:}{\fs20\cf0  Acorns and berries become grenades and bombs.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 7 Fire Storm: }{\fs20\cf0 Deals 1d6/level fire damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 8 Incendiary Cloud: }{\fs20\cf0 Cloud deals 4d6 fire damage/round.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 9 Elemental Swarm**: }{\fs20\cf0 Summons multiple elementals.
\par *Resist cold or fire only.
\par **Cast as a fire spell only.
\par }{\cf0 
\par GOOD DOMAIN
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Granted Power:}{\fs20\cf0  You cast good spells at +1 caster level.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Good Domain Spells
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 1 Protection from Evil: }{\fs20\cf0 +2 to AC and saves, counter mind control, hedge out elementals and outsiders.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 2 Aid:}{\fs20\cf0  +1 on attack rolls, +1 on saves against fear, 1d8 temporary hp +1/level (max +10).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 3 Magic Circle against Evil: }{\fs20\cf0 As }{\i\fs20\cf0 protection }{\fs20\cf0 spells, but 10-ft. radius and 10 min./level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 4 Holy Smite: }{\fs20\cf0 Damages and blinds evil creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 5 Dispel Evil: }{\fs20\cf0 +4 bonus against attacks by evil creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 6 Blade Barrier: }{\fs20\cf0 Wall of blades deals 1d6/level damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 7 Holy Word }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Kills, paralyzes, slows, or deafens nongood subjects.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 8 Holy Aura:}{\fs20\cf0  +4 to AC, +4 resistance, and SR 25 against evil spells.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 9 Summon Monster IX*:}{\fs20\cf0  Calls extraplanar creature to fight for you.
\par *Cast as a good spell only.
\par }{\cf0 
\par HEALING DOMAIN
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Granted Power:}{\fs20\cf0  You cast healing spells at +1 caster level.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Healing Domain Spells
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 1 Cure Light Wounds: }{\fs20\cf0 Cures 1d8 damage +1/level (max +5).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 2 Cure Moderate Wounds: }{\fs20\cf0 Cures 2d8 damage +1/level (max +10).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 3 Cure Serious Wounds: }{\fs20\cf0 Cures 3d8 damage +1/level (max +15).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 4 Cure Critical Wounds: }{\fs20\cf0 Cures 4d8 damage +1/level (max +20).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 5 Cure Light Wounds, Mass: }{\fs20\cf0 Cures 1d8 damage +1/level (max +25) for many creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 6 Heal: }{\fs20\cf0 Cures 10 points/level of damage, all diseases and mental conditions.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 7 Regenerate: }{\fs20\cf0 Subject\rquote s severed limbs grow back, cures 4d8 damage +1/level (max +35).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 8 Cure Critical Wounds, Mass: }{\fs20\cf0 Cures 4d8 damage +1/level (max +40) for many creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 9 Heal, Mass:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 heal}{\fs20\cf0 , but with several subjects.
\par }{\cf0 
\par KNOWLEDGE DOMAIN
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Granted Power:}{\fs20\cf0  Add all Knowledge skills to your list of cleric class skills.
\par You cast divination spells at +1 caster level.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Knowledge Domain Spells
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 1 Detect Secret Doors:}{\fs20\cf0  Reveals hidden doors within 60 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 2 Detect Thoughts: }{\fs20\cf0 Allows \'93listening\'94 to surface thoughts.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 3 Clairaudience/Clairvoyance: }{\fs20\cf0 Hear or see at a distance for 1 min./level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 4 Divination }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 : }{\fs20\cf0 Provides useful advice for specific proposed actions.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 5 True Seeing }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 : }{\fs20\cf0 Lets you see all things as they really are.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 6 Find the Path: }{\fs20\cf0 Shows most direct way to a location.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 7 Legend Lore }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs12\cf0  }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs20\cf0 : }{\fs20\cf0 Lets you learn tales about a person, place, or thing.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 8 Discern Location: }{\fs20\cf0 Reveals exact location of creature or object.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 9 Foresight: }{\fs20\cf0 \'93Sixth sense\'94 warns of impending danger.
\par }{\cf0 
\par LAW DOMAIN
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Granted Power:}{\fs20\cf0  You cast law spells at +1 caster level.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Law Domain Spells
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 1 Protection from Chaos: }{\fs20\cf0 +2 to AC and saves, counter mind control, hedge out elementals and outsiders.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 2 Calm Emotions:}{\fs20\cf0  Calms creatures, negating emotion effects.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 3 Magic Circle against Chaos:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 protection }{\fs20\cf0 spells, but 10-ft. radius and 10 min./level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 4 Order\rquote s Wrath: }{\fs20\cf0 Damages and dazes chaotic creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 5 Dispel Chaos: }{\fs20\cf0 +4 bonus against attacks by chaotic creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 6 Hold Monster: }{\fs20\cf0 As }{\i\fs20\cf0 hold person}{\fs20\cf0 , but any creature.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 7 Dictum:}{\fs20\cf0  Kills, paralyzes, slows, or deafens nonlawful subjects.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 8 Shield of Law }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs20\cf0 : }{\fs20\cf0 +4 to AC, +4 resistance, and SR 25 against chaotic spells.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 9 Summon Monster IX*: }{\fs20\cf0 Calls extraplanar creature to fight for you.
\par *Cast as a law spell only.
\par }{\cf0 
\par LUCK DOMAIN
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Granted Power:}{\fs20\cf0  You gain the power of good fortun
e, which is usable once per day. This extraordinary ability allows you to reroll one roll that you have just made before the DM declares whether the roll results in success or failure. You must take the result of the reroll, even if it\rquote 
s worse than the original roll.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Luck Domain Spells
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 1 Entropic Shield: }{\fs20\cf0 Ranged attacks against you have 20% miss chance.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 2 Aid: }{\fs20\cf0 +1 on attack rolls, +1 against fear, 1d8 temporary hp +1/level (max +10).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 3 Protection from Energy: }{\fs20\cf0 Absorb 12 points/level of damage from one kind of energy.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 4 Freedom of Movement:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject moves normally despite impediments.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 5 Break Enchantment: }{\fs20\cf0 Frees subjects from enchantments, alterations, curses, and petrification.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 6 Mislead:}{\fs20\cf0  Turns you invisible and creates illusory double.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 7 Spell Turning: }{\fs20\cf0 Reflect 1d4+6 spell levels back at caster.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 8 Moment of Prescience: }{\fs20\cf0 You gain insight bonus on single attack roll, check, or save.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 9 Miracle }{\b\fs20\cf0\super X}{\b\fs20\cf0 : }{\fs20\cf0 Requests a deity\rquote s intercession.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 MAGIC DOMAIN
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Granted Power:}{\fs20\cf0  Use scrolls, wands, and other devices with spell completion o
r spell trigger activation as a wizard of one-half your cleric level (at least 1st level). For the purpose of using a scroll or other magic device, if you are also a wizard, actual wizard levels and these effective wizard levels stack.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Magic Domain Spells
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 1 Magic Aura: }{\fs20\cf0 Alters object\rquote s magic aura.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 2 Identify: }{\fs20\cf0 Determines properties of magic item.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 3 Dispel Magic: }{\fs20\cf0 Cancels magical spells and effects.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 4 Imbue with Spell Ability: }{\fs20\cf0 Transfer spells to subject.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 5 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject gains SR 12 + level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 6 Antimagic Field: }{\fs20\cf0 Negates magic within 10 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 7 Spell Turning: }{\fs20\cf0 Reflect 1d4+6 spell levels back at caster.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 8 Protection from Spells }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs12\cf0  }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs20\cf0 : }{\fs20\cf0 Confers +8 resistance bonus.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 9 Mage\rquote s Disjunction: }{\fs20\cf0 Dispels magic, disenchants magic items.
\par }{\cf0 PLANT DOMAIN
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Granted Powers:}{\fs20\cf0  Rebuke or command plant creatures as an evil cleric rebukes or commands undead. Use this ability a total number of times per day equal to 3 + your Charisma modifier. This granted power is a supernatural ability.

\par Add Knowledge (nature) to your list of cleric class skills.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Plant Domain Spells
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 1 Entangle: }{\fs20\cf0 Plants entangle everyone in 40-ft.-radius.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 2 Barkskin:}{\fs20\cf0  Grants +2 (or higher) enhancement to natural armor.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 3 Plant Growth: }{\fs20\cf0 Grows vegetation, improves crops.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 4 Command Plants:}{\fs20\cf0  Sway the actions of one or more plant creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 5 Wall of Thorns: }{\fs20\cf0 Thorns damage anyone who tries to pass.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 6 Repel Wood:}{\fs20\cf0  Pushes away wooden objects.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 7 Animate Plants: }{\fs20\cf0 One or more trees animate and fight for you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 8 Control Plants: }{\fs20\cf0 Control actions of one or more plant creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 9 Shambler: }{\fs20\cf0 Summons 1d4+2 shambling mounds to fight for you.
\par }{\cf0 
\par PROTECTION DOMAIN
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Granted Power:}{\fs20\cf0  You can generate a }{\i\fs20\cf0 protective ward }{\fs20\cf0 as a supernatural ability. Grant someone you touch a resistance bonus equal to your cleric level on his or her next saving throw. Activating thi
s power is a standard action. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 protective ward }{\fs20\cf0 is an abjuration effect with a duration of 1 hour that is usable once per day.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Protection Domain Spells
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 1 Sanctuary:}{\fs20\cf0  Opponents can\rquote t attack you, and you can\rquote t attack.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 2 Shield Other }{\b\fs20\cf0\super F}{\b\fs20\cf0 : }{\fs20\cf0 You take half of subject\rquote s damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 3 Protection from Energy: }{\fs20\cf0 Absorb 12 points/level of damage from one kind of energy.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 4 Spell Immunity:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject is immune to one spell per four levels.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 5 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 Subject gains SR 12 + level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 6 Antimagic Field: }{\fs20\cf0 Negates magic within 10 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 7 Repulsion: }{\fs20\cf0 Creatures can\rquote t approach you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 8 Mind Blank:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject is immune to mental/emotional magic and scrying.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 9 Prismatic Sphere: }{\fs20\cf0 As }{\i\fs20\cf0 prismatic wall}{\fs20\cf0 , but surrounds on all sides.
\par }{\cf0 
\par STRENGTH DOMAIN
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Granted Power:}{\fs20\cf0  You can perform a feat of strength as a
 supernatural ability. You gain an enhancement bonus to Strength equal to your cleric level. Activating the power is a free action, the power lasts 1 round, and it is usable once per day.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Strength Domain Spells
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 1 Enlarge Person:}{\fs20\cf0  Humanoid creature doubles in size.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 2 Bull\rquote s Strength: }{\fs20\cf0 Subject gains +4 to Str for 1 min./level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 3 Magic Vestment: }{\fs20\cf0 Armor or shield gains +1 enhancement per four levels.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 4 Spell Immunity:}{\fs20\cf0  Subject is immune to one spell per four levels.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 5 Righteous Might: }{\fs20\cf0 Your size increases, and you gain combat bonuses.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 6 Stoneskin }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 : }{\fs20\cf0 Ignore 10 points of damage per attack.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 7 Grasping Hand: }{\fs20\cf0 Large hand provides cover, pushes, or grapples.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 8 Clenched Fist: }{\fs20\cf0 Large hand provides cover, pushes, or attacks your foes.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 9 Crushing Hand: }{\fs20\cf0 Large hand provides cover, pushes, or crushes your foes.
\par }{\cf0 
\par SUN DOMAIN
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Granted Power:}{\fs20\cf0  Once per day, you can perform a greater turning against undead in place of a regular turning. The greater turning is like a normal turning except that the undead creatures that would be turned are d
estroyed instead.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Sun Domain Spells
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 1 Endure Elements: }{\fs20\cf0 Exist comfortably in hot or cold environments.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 2 Heat Metal: }{\fs20\cf0 Make metal so hot it damages those who touch it.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 3 Searing Light: }{\fs20\cf0 Ray deals 1d8/two levels, more against undead.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 4 Fire Shield:}{\fs20\cf0  Creatures attacking you take fire damage; you\rquote re protected from heat or cold.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 5 Flame Strike: }{\fs20\cf0 Smite foes with divine fire (1d6/level damage).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 6 Fire Seeds: }{\fs20\cf0 Acorns and berries become grenades and bombs.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 7 Sunbeam:}{\fs20\cf0  Beam blinds and deals 4d6 damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 8 Sunburst: }{\fs20\cf0 Blinds all within 10 ft., deals 6d6 damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 9 Prismatic Sphere: }{\fs20\cf0 As }{\i\fs20\cf0 prismatic wall}{\fs20\cf0 , but surrounds on all sides.
\par }{\cf0 
\par TRAVEL DOMAIN
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Granted Powers:}{\fs20\cf0  For a total time per day of 1 round per cleric level you possess, you can act normally regardless of magical effects that impede movement as if you were affected by the spell }{\i\fs20\cf0 freedom of movement}{
\fs20\cf0 . This effect occurs automatically as soon as it applies, lasts until it runs out or is no longer needed, and can operate multiple times per day (up to the total daily limit of rounds).
\par This granted power is a supernatural ability.
\par Add Survival to your list of cleric class skills.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Travel Domain Spells
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 1 Longstrider: }{\fs20\cf0 Increases your speed.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 2 Locate Object: }{\fs20\cf0 Senses direction toward object (specific or type).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 3 Fly: }{\fs20\cf0 Subject flies at speed of 60 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 4 Dimension Door: }{\fs20\cf0 Teleports you short distance.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 5 Teleport: }{\fs20\cf0 Instantly transports you as far as 100 miles/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 6 Find the Path: }{\fs20\cf0 Shows most direct way to a location.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 7 Teleport, Greater:}{\fs20\cf0  As }{\i\fs20\cf0 teleport, }{\fs20\cf0 but no range limit and no off-target arrival.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 8 Phase Door: }{\fs20\cf0 Creates an invisible passage through wood or stone.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 9 Astral Projection }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 : }{\fs20\cf0 Projects you and companions onto Astral Plane.
\par }{\cf0 
\par TRICKERY DOMAIN
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Granted Power:}{\fs20\cf0  Add Bluff, Disguise, and Hide to your list of cleric class skills.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Trickery Domain Spells
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 1 Disguise Self: }{\fs20\cf0 Disguise own appearance.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 2 Invisibility: }{\fs20\cf0 Subject invisible 1 min./level or until it attacks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 3 Nondetection }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 : }{\fs20\cf0 Hides subject from divination, scrying.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 4 Confusion:}{\fs20\cf0  Subjects behave oddly for 1 round/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 5 False Vision }{\b\fs20\cf0\super M}{\b\fs20\cf0 :}{\fs20\cf0  Fools scrying with an illusion.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 6 Mislead: }{\fs20\cf0 Turns you invisible and creates illusory double.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 7 Screen: }{\fs20\cf0 Illusion hides area from vision, scrying.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 8 Polymorph Any Object:}{\fs20\cf0  Changes any subject into anything else.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 9 Time Stop: }{\fs20\cf0 You act freely for 1d4+1 rounds.
\par }{\cf0 
\par WAR DOMAIN
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Granted Power:}{\fs20\cf0  Free Martial Weapon Proficiency with deity\rquote s favored weapon (if necessary) and Weapon Focus with the deity\rquote s favored weapon.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {War Domain Spells
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 1 Magic Weapon:}{\fs20\cf0  Weapon gains +1 bonus.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 2 Spiritual Weapon: }{\fs20\cf0 Magical weapon attacks on its own.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 3 Magic Vestment: }{\fs20\cf0 Armor or shield gains +1 enhancement per four levels.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 4 Divine Power:}{\fs20\cf0  You gain attack bonus, +6 to Str, and 1 hp/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 5 Flame Strike:}{\fs20\cf0  Smite foes with divine fire (1d6/level damage).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 6 Blade Barrier:}{\fs20\cf0  Wall of blades deals 1d6/level damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 7 Power Word Blind: }{\fs20\cf0 Blinds creature with 200 hp or less.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 8 Power Word Stun: }{\fs20\cf0 Stuns creature with 150 hp or less.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 9 Power Word Kill: }{\fs20\cf0 Kills creature with 100 hp or less.
\par }{\cf0 
\par WATER DOMAIN
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Granted Power:}{\fs20\cf0  Turn or destroy fire creatures as a good cleric turns undead. Rebuke,
 command, or bolster water creatures as an evil cleric rebukes undead. Use these abilities a total number of times per day equal to 3 + your Charisma modifier. This granted power is a supernatural ability.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Water Domain Spells
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 1 Obscuring Mist:}{\fs20\cf0  Fog surrounds you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 2 Fog Cloud: }{\fs20\cf0 Fog obscures vision.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 3 Water Breathing: }{\fs20\cf0 Subjects can breathe underwater.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 4 Control Water: }{\fs20\cf0 Raises or lowers bodies of water.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 5 Ice Storm: }{\fs20\cf0 Hail deals 5d6 damage in cylinder 40 ft. across.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 6 Cone of Cold:}{\fs20\cf0  1d6/level cold damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 7 Acid Fog: }{\fs20\cf0 Fog deals acid damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 8 Horrid Wilting: }{\fs20\cf0 Deals 1d6/level damage within 30 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 9 Elemental Swarm*:}{\fs20\cf0  Summons multiple elementals.
\par *Cast as a water spell only.
\par }}