{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New{\*\falt Courier};}{\f116\fnil\fcharset0\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Pterra-dactyl;}{\f164\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f165\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f167\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f168\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f169\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f170\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f171\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f180\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE{\*\falt Courier};}{\f181\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr{\*\falt Courier};}{\f183\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f184\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur{\*\falt Courier};}{\f185\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier};}{\f186\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic){\*\falt Courier};}
{\f187\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic{\*\falt Courier};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f116\fs37\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs19\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{
\s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{\s4\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs19\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 4;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs19\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext15 Body Text;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs19\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Body Text 2;}{\s17\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar
\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 Preformatted;}}{\info{\title TRAPS}{\author AKSmith}
{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2003\mo7\dy1\hr15\min17}{\revtim\yr2003\mo7\dy2\hr13\min27}{\version3}{\edmins1}{\nofpages12}{\nofwords7300}{\nofchars-32766}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8283}}
\margl1080\margr1080\margt1080\margb1080 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace120\dgvspace180\dghorigin1080\dgvorigin1080\dghshow2\dgvshow2
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\pgbrdropt32\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 
This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{\f0\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f116\fs37\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs36 TRAPS
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Types of Traps:}{\fs20\cf0  A trap can be either mechanical or magic in nature. Mechanical traps include pits, arrow trap
s, falling blocks, water-filled rooms, whirling blades, and anything else that depends on a mechanism to operate. A mechanical trap can be constructed by a PC through successful use of the Craft (trapmaking) skill (see Designing a Trap, below, and the ski
ll description).
\par Magic traps are further divided into spell traps and magic device traps. Magic device traps initiate spell effects when activated, just as wands, rods, rings, and other magic items do. Creating a magic device trap requires the Craft Wondrou
s Item feat (see Designing a Trap and the feat description).
\par Spell traps are simply spells that themselves function as traps}{\i\fs20\cf0 . }{\fs20\cf0 Creating a spell trap requires the services of a character who can cast the needed spell or spells, who is usually either the char
acter creating the trap or an NPC spellcaster hired for the purpose.
\par }{\cf0 
\par MECHANICAL TRAPS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Dungeons are frequently equipped with deadly mechanical (nonmagical) traps. A trap typically is defined by its location and triggering conditions, how hard it is to spot
 before it goes off, how much damage it deals, and whether or not the heroes receive a saving throw to mitigate its effects. Traps that attack with arrows, sweeping blades, and other types of weaponry make normal attack rolls, with a specific attack bonus
 dictated by the trap\rquote s design.
\par Creatures who succeed on a DC 20 Search check detect a simple mechanical trap before it is triggered. (A simple trap is a snare, a trap triggered by a tripwire, or a large trap such as a pit.)
\par A character with the trap se
nse class feature who succeeds on a DC 21 (or higher) Search check detects a well-hidden or complex mechanical trap before it is triggered. Complex traps are denoted by their triggering mechanisms and involve pressure plates, mechanisms linked to doors, c
hanges in weight, disturbances in the air, vibrations, and other sorts of unusual triggers.
\par }{\cf0 
\par MAGIC TRAPS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Many spells can be used to create dangerous traps. Unless the spell or item description states otherwise, assume the following to be true.
\par \bullet  A successful Search check (DC 25 + spell level) made by a rogue (and only a rogue) detects a magic trap before it goes off. Other characters have no chance to find a magic trap with a Search check.
\par \bullet  Magic traps permit a saving throw in order to avoid the effect (DC 10 + spell level x \u-4064\'3f1.5).
\par \bullet  Magic traps may be disarmed by a rogue (and only a rogue) with a successful Disable Device check (DC 25 + spell level).
\par }{\cf0 
\par ELEMENTS OF A TRAP
\par }{\fs20\cf0 All traps\emdash mechanical or magic\emdash have the following elements: trigger, reset, Search DC, Di
sable Device DC, attack bonus (or saving throw or onset delay), damage/effect, and Challenge Rating. Some traps may also include optional elements, such as poison or a bypass. These characteristics are described below.
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par Trigger
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 A trap\rquote s trigger determines how it is sprung.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Location:}{\fs20\cf0  A location trigger springs a trap when someone stands in a particular square.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Proximity:}{\fs20\cf0  This trigger activates the trap when a creature approaches within a certain distance of it. A proximity trigger differs from a location tri
gger in that the creature need not be standing in a particular square. Creatures that are flying can spring a trap with a proximity trigger but not one with a location trigger. Mechanical proximity triggers are extremely sensitive to the slightest change 
in the air. This makes them useful only in places such as crypts, where the air is unusually still.
\par The proximity trigger used most often for magic device traps is the }{\i\fs20\cf0 alarm }{\fs20\cf0 spell. Unlike when the spell is cast, an }{\i\fs20\cf0 alarm }{\fs20\cf0 spell used as a trigger can have an area that\rquote 
s no larger than the area the trap is meant to protect.
\par Some magic device traps have special proximity triggers that activate only when certain kinds of creatures approach. For example, a }{\i\fs20\cf0 detect good }{\fs20\cf0 spell can serve as a proximity trigger on an e
vil altar, springing the attached trap only when someone of good alignment gets close enough to it.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Sound:}{\fs20\cf0  This trigger springs a magic trap when it detects any sound. A sound trigger functions like an ear and has a +15 bonus on Listen checks. A successful Move Silently check, magical }{\i\fs20\cf0 silence, }{\fs20\cf0 
and other effects that would negate hearing defeat it. A trap with a sound trigger requires the casting of }{\i\fs20\cf0 clairaudience }{\fs20\cf0 during its construction.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Visual:}{\fs20\cf0  This trigger for magic traps works like an actual eye, springing the trap whenever it \'93sees\'94 something. A trap with a visual trigger requires the casting of }{\i\fs20\cf0 arcane eye, clairvoyance, }{\fs20\cf0 or }{
\i\fs20\cf0 true seeing }{\fs20\cf0 during its construction. Sight range and the Spot bonus conferred on the trap depend on the spell chosen, as shown.
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1141\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3824
\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5013\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Spell\cell Sight Range\cell Spot Bonus\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 
{\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1141\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx3824\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5013\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1141\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3824\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5013\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 arcane eye\cell }{\fs20\cf0 Line of sight (unlimited range)\cell +20\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1141\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx3824\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5013\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 clairvoyance\cell }{\fs20\cf0 One preselected location\cell +15\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1141\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3824\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5013\row }\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1141\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3824\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5013\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 true seeing\cell }{\fs20\cf0 Line of sight (up to 120 ft.)\cell +30\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1141\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3824\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5013\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\cf0 If you want the trap to 
\'93see\'94 in the dark, you must either choose the }{\i\fs20\cf0 true seeing }{\fs20\cf0 option or add }{\i\fs20\cf0 darkvision }{\fs20\cf0 to the trap as well. (}{\i\fs20\cf0 Darkvision }{\fs20\cf0 limits the trap\rquote 
s sight range in the dark to 60 feet.) If invisibility, disguises, or illusions can fool the spell being used, they can fool the visual trigger as well. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Touch: }{\fs20\cf0 A touch trigger, whic
h springs the trap when touched, is one of the simplest kinds of trigger to construct. This trigger may be physically attached to the part of the mechanism that deals the damage or it may not. You can make a magic touch trigger by adding }{\i\fs20\cf0 
alarm }{\fs20\cf0 to the trap and reducing the area of the effect to cover only the trigger spot.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Timed:}{\fs20\cf0  This trigger periodically springs the trap after a certain duration has passed.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell:}{\fs20\cf0  All spell traps have this kind of trigger. The appropriate spell descriptions}{\i\fs20\cf0  }{\fs20\cf0 explain the trigger conditions for traps that contain spell triggers.
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par Reset
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 A reset element is the set of conditions under which a trap becomes ready to trigger again.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 No Reset: }{\fs20\cf0 Short of completely rebuilding the trap, there\rquote s no way to trigger it more than once. Spell traps have no reset element. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Repair:}{\fs20\cf0  To get the trap functioning again, you must repair it. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Manual: }{\fs20\cf0 Resetting the trap requires someone to move the parts back into place. This is the kind of reset element most mechanical traps have.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Automatic:}{\fs20\cf0  The trap resets itself, either immediately or after a timed interval.
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par Repairing and Resetting Mechanical Traps
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 
Repairing a mechanical trap requires a Craft (trapmaking) check against a DC equal to the one for building it. The cost for raw materials is one-fifth of the trap\rquote 
s original market price. To calculate how long it takes to fix a trap, use the same calculations you would for building it, but use the cost of the raw materials required for repair in place of the market price.
\par Resetting a trap usually takes only a minute or so. For a trap with a more difficult reset method, you should set the time and labor required.
\par }{\b\fs21\cf0 
\par Bypass (Optional Element)
\par }{\fs20\cf0 If the builder of a trap wants to be able to move past the trap after it is created or placed, it\rquote s a good idea to build in a bypass mechanism \emdash 
something that temporarily disarms the trap. Bypass elements are typically used only with mechanical traps; spell traps usually have built-in allowances for the caster to bypass them.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Lock:}{\fs20\cf0  A lock bypass requires a DC 30 Open Lock check to open. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Hidden Switch:}{\fs20\cf0  A hidden switch requires a DC 25 Search check to locate.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Hidden Lock: }{\fs20\cf0 A hidden lock combines the features above, requiring a DC 25 Search check to locate and a DC 30 Open Lock check to open.
\par }{\b\fs21\cf0 
\par Search and Disable Device DCs
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs19\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
The builder sets the Search and Disable Device DCs for a mechanical trap. For a magic trap, the values depend on the highest-level spell used.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 Mechanical Trap:}{\fs20\cf0  The base DC for both Search and Disable Device checks is 20. Raisi
ng or lowering either of these DCs affects the base cost (Table: Cost Modifiers for Mechanical Traps) and possibly the CR (Table: CR Modifiers for Mechanical Traps). 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Magic Trap:}{\fs20\cf0  The DC for both Search and Disable Device checks is equal to 25 + the spell l
evel of the highest-level spell used. Only characters with the trap sense class feature can attempt a Search check or a Disable Device check involving a magic trap. These DCs do not affect the trap\rquote s cost or CR.
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par Attack Bonus/Saving Throw DC
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs19\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 A trap usually
 either makes an attack roll or forces a saving throw to avoid it. Occasionally a trap uses both of these options, or neither (see Never Miss).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 Pits:}{\fs20\cf0 
 These are holes (covered or not) that characters can fall into and take damage. A pit needs no attack roll, but a successful Reflex save (DC set by the builder) avoids it. Other save-dependent mechanical traps also fall into this category.
\par Pits in dungeons come in three basic varieties: uncovered, covered, and chasms. Pits and chasms can be defeated by judicious application of the Climb skill, the Jump skill, or various magical means.
\par Uncovered pits serve mainly to discourage intruders from going a certain way, although they cause much grief to characters who stumble into them in the dark, and they can greatly complicate a melee taking place nearby.
\par Covered pits are much more dangerous. They can be detected with a DC 20 Search check, but only if the character is taking the time to carefully examine the area before walking across it. A character who fails to dete
ct a covered pit is still entitled to a DC 20 Reflex save to avoid falling into it. However, if she was running or moving recklessly at the time, she gets no saving throw and falls automatically.
\par Trap coverings can be as simple as piled refuse (straw, leav
es, sticks, garbage), a large rug, or an actual trapdoor concealed to appear as a normal part of the floor. Such a trapdoor usually swings open when enough weight (usually about 50 to 80 pounds) is placed upon it. Devious trap builders sometimes design tr
apdoors so that they spring back shut after they open. The trapdoor might lock once it\rquote 
s back in place, leaving the stranded character well and truly trapped. Opening such a trapdoor is just as difficult as opening a regular door (assuming the trapped chara
cter can reach it), and a DC 13 Strength check is needed to keep a spring-loaded door open.
\par Pit traps often have something nastier than just a hard floor at the bottom. A trap designer may put spikes, monsters, or a pool of acid, lava, or even water at the
 bottom. Spikes at the bottom of a pit deal damage as daggers with a +10 attack bonus and a +1 bonus on damage for every 10 feet of the fall (to a maximum bonus on damage of +5). If the pit has multiple spikes, a falling victim is attacked by 1d4 of them.
 This damage is in addition to any damage from the fall itself. 
\par Monsters sometimes live in pits. Any monster that can fit into the pit might have been placed there by the dungeon\rquote s designer, or might simply have fallen in and not been able to climb back out. 
\par A secondary trap, mechanical or magical, at the bottom of a pit can be particularly deadly. Activated by a falling victim, the secondary trap attacks the already injured character when she\rquote s least ready for it.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Ranged Attack Traps: }{\fs20\cf0 These traps fling da
rts, arrows, spears, or the like at whoever activated the trap. The builder sets the attack bonus. A ranged attack trap can be configured to simulate the effect of a composite bow with a high strength rating which provides the trap with a bonus on damage 
equal to its strength rating.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Melee Attack Traps: }{\fs20\cf0 These traps feature such obstacles as sharp blades that emerge from walls and stone blocks that fall from ceilings. Once again, the builder sets the attack bonus.
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par Damage/Effect
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 The effect of a trap is what 
happens to those who spring it. Usually this takes the form of either damage or a spell effect, but some traps have special effects.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Pits:}{\fs20\cf0  Falling into a pit deals 1d6 points of damage per 10 feet of depth. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Ranged Attack Traps:}{\fs20\cf0  These traps deal whatever damage their ammunition normally would. If a trap is constructed with a high strength rating, it has a corresponding bonus on damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Melee Attack Traps:}{\fs20\cf0  These traps deal the same damage as the melee weapons they \'93wield.\'94 In the 
case of a falling stone block, you can assign any amount of bludgeoning damage you like, but remember that whoever resets the trap has to lift that stone back into place. 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs19\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 A melee attack trap can be constructed with a built-in bonus on damage rolls, just a
s if the trap itself had a high Strength score. 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Traps:}{\fs20\cf0  Spell traps produce the spell\rquote s effect}{\i\fs20\cf0 . }{\fs20\cf0 
Like all spells, a spell trap that allows a saving throw has a save DC of 10 + spell level + caster\rquote s relevant ability modifier.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Magic Device Traps:}{\fs20\cf0  These traps produce the effects of any spells included in their construction, as described in the appropriate entries}{\i\fs20\cf0 . }{\fs20\cf0 
If the spell in a magic device trap allows a saving throw, its save DC is 10 + spell level x \u-4064\'3f1.5. Some spells make attack rolls instead.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special:}{\fs20\cf0 
 Some traps have miscellaneous features that produce special effects, such as drowning for a water trap or ability damage for poison. Saving throws and damage depend on the poison or are set by the builder, as appropriate.
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par Miscellaneous Trap Features
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 
Some traps include optional features that can make them considerably more deadly. The most common such features are discussed below.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Alchemical Item:}{\fs20\cf0  Mechanical traps may incorporate alchemical devices or other special substances or items, such as tanglefoot bags, alchemist\rquote 
s fire, thunderstones, and the like. Some such items mimic spell effects. If the item mimics a spell effect, it increases the CR as shown on Table: CR Modifiers for Mechanical Traps.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Gas:}{\fs20\cf0  With a gas trap, the danger is in the inhaled poison it delivers. Traps employing gas usually have the never miss and onset delay features (see below).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Liquid:}{\fs20\cf0  Any trap that involves a danger of drowning is in this category. Traps employing liquid usually have the never miss and onset delay features (see below). 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Multiple Target:}{\fs20\cf0  Traps with this feature can affect more than one character.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Never Miss:}{\fs20\cf0  When the entire dungeon wall moves to crush you, your quick reflexes won\rquote t help, since the wall can\rquote t possibly miss. A trap with this feature has neither an 
attack bonus nor a saving throw to avoid, but it does have an onset delay (see below). Most traps involving liquid or gas are of the never miss variety. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Onset Delay:}{\fs20\cf0  An onset delay is the amount of time between when the trap is sprung and when it deals damage. A never miss trap always has an onset delay.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Poison: }{\fs20\cf0 Traps that employ poison are deadlier than their nonpoisonous counterparts, so they have correspondingly higher CRs. To determine the CR modifier for a given poison, consult Table: CR Modifiers for
 Mechanical Traps. Only injury, contact, and inhaled poisons are suitable for traps; ingested types are not. Some traps simply deal the poison\rquote s damage. Others deal damage with ranged or melee attacks as well. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Pit Spikes:}{\fs20\cf0  Treat spikes at the bottom of a p
it as daggers, each with a +10 attack bonus. The damage bonus for each spike is +1 per 10 feet of pit depth (to a maximum of +5). Each character who falls into the pit is attacked by 1d4 spikes. Pit spikes do not add to the average damage of the trap (see
 Average Damage, below).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Pit Bottom:}{\fs20\cf0  If something other than spikes waits at the bottom of a pit, it\rquote 
s best to treat that as a separate trap (see Multiple Traps, below) with a location trigger that activates on any significant impact, such as a falling character. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Touch Attack:}{\fs20\cf0  This feature applies to any trap that needs only a successful touch attack (melee or ranged) to hit.
\par }{\cf0 
\par SAMPLE TRAPS
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs19\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 The costs listed for mechanical traps are market prices; those for magic traps are raw material costs. Caster level and
 class for the spells used to produce the trap effects are provided in the entries for magic device traps and spell traps. For all other spells used (in triggers, for example), the caster level is assumed to be the minimum required.
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {CR 1 Traps
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 Basic Arrow Trap:}{\fs20\cf0 
 CR 1; mechanical; proximity trigger; manual reset; Atk +10 ranged (1d6/x3, arrow); Search DC 20; Disable Device DC 20. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 2,000 gp.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Camouflaged Pit Trap:}{\fs20\cf0  CR 1; mechanical; location trigger; manual reset; DC 20 Reflex save avoids; 10 ft. deep (1d6, fall); Search DC 24; Disable Device DC 20. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 1,800 gp.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Deeper Pit Trap: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 1; mechanical; location trigger; manual reset; hidden switch bypass (Search DC 25); DC 15 Reflex save avoids; 20 ft. deep (2d6, fall); multi
ple targets (first target in each of two adjacent 5-ft. squares); Search DC 20; Disable Device DC 23. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 1,300 gp.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Fusillade of Darts:}{\fs20\cf0  CR 1; mechanical; location trigger; manual reset; Atk +10 ranged (1d4+1, dart); multiple targets (fires 1d4 darts at each target in two adjacent 5-ft. squares); Search DC 14; Disable Device DC 20. }{
\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 500 gp.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Poison Dart Trap:}{\fs20\cf0  CR 1; mechanical; location trigger; manual reset; Atk +8 ranged (1d4 plus poison, dart); poison (bloodroot, DC 12 Fortitude save resists, 0/1d4 Con plus 1d3 Wis); Search DC 20; Disable Device DC 18. }{
\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 700 gp.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Poison Needle Trap:}{\fs20\cf0  CR 1; mechanical; touch trigger; manual reset; Atk +8 ranged (1 plus greenblood oil poison); Search DC 22; Disable Device DC 20. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 1,300 gp.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Portcullis Trap:}{\fs20\cf0  CR 1; mechanical; location trigger; manual reset; Atk +10 melee (3d6); Search DC 20; Disable Device DC 20. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Note: }{\fs20\cf0 
Damage applies only to those underneath the portcullis. Portcullis blocks passageway. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 1,400 gp.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Razor-Wire across Hallway:}{\fs20\cf0  CR 1; mechanical; location trigger; no reset; Atk +10 melee (2d6, wire); multiple targets (first target in each of two adjacent 5-ft. squares); Search DC 22; Disable Device DC 15. }{\i\fs20\cf0 
Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 400 gp.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Rolling Rock Trap: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 1; mechanical; location trigger; manual reset; Atk +10 melee (2d6, rock); Search DC 20; Disable Device DC 22. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 1,400 gp.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Scything Blade Trap:}{\fs20\cf0  CR 1; mechanical; location trigger; automatic reset; Atk +8 melee (1d8/x3); Search DC 21; Disable Device DC 20. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 1,700 gp.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spear Trap: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 1; mechanical; location trigger; manual reset; Atk +12 ranged (1d8/x3, spear); Search DC 20; Disable Device DC 20. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Note: }{\fs20\cf0 
200-ft. max range, target determined randomly from those in its path. Market Price: 1,200 gp.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Swinging Block Trap:}{\fs20\cf0  CR 1; mechanical; touch trigger; manual reset; Atk +5 melee (4d6, stone block); Search DC 20; Disable Device DC 20. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 500 gp.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Wall Blade Trap: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 1; mechanical; touch trigger; automatic reset; hidden switch bypass (Search DC 25); Atk +10 melee (2d4/x4, scythe); Search DC 22; Disable Device DC 22. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 2,500 gp.
\par }{\fs21\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {CR 2 Traps
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 Box of Brown Mold:}{\fs20\cf0 
 CR 2; mechanical; touch trigger (opening the box); automatic reset; 5-ft. cold aura (3d6, cold nonlethal); Search DC 22; Disable Device DC 16. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 3,000 gp.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bricks from Ceiling:}{\fs20\cf0  CR 2; mechanical; touch trigger; repair reset; Atk +12 melee (2d6, bricks); multiple targets (all targets in two adjacent 5-ft. squares); Search DC 20; Disable Device DC 20. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{
\fs20\cf0 2,400 gp.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Burning Hands }{\b\fs20\cf0 Trap:}{\fs20\cf0  CR 2; magic device; proximity trigger }{\i\fs20\cf0 (alarm); }{\fs20\cf0 automatic reset; spell effect (}{\i\fs20\cf0 burning hands}{\fs20\cf0 , 1st-level wi
zard, 1d4 fire, DC 11 Reflex save half damage); Search DC 26; Disable Device DC 26. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 500 gp, 40 XP.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Camouflaged Pit Trap: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 2; mechanical; location trigger; manual reset; DC 20 Reflex save avoids; 20 ft. deep (2d6, fall); multiple targets (first targ
et in each of two adjacent 5-ft. squares); Search DC 24; Disable Device DC 19. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 3,400 gp.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Inflict Light Wounds }{\b\fs20\cf0 Trap:}{\fs20\cf0  CR 2; magic device; touch trigger; automatic reset; spell effect (}{\i\fs20\cf0 inflict light wounds, }{\fs20\cf0 1st-level cleric, 1d8+1, DC 11 Will sa
ve half damage); Search DC 26; Disable Device DC 26. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 500 gp, 40 XP.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Javelin Trap:}{\fs20\cf0  CR 2; mechanical; location trigger; manual reset; Atk +16 ranged (1d6+4, javelin); Search DC 20; Disable Device DC 18. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 4,800 gp.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Large Net Trap:}{\fs20\cf0  CR 2; mechanical; location trigger; manual reset; Atk +5 melee (see note); Search DC 20; Disable Device DC 25. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Note: }{\fs20\cf0 
Characters in 10-ft. square are grappled by net (Str 18) if they fail a DC 14 Reflex save. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 3,000 gp.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Pit Trap: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 2; mechanical, location trigger; manual reset; DC 20 Reflex save avoids; 40 ft. deep (4d6, fall); Search DC 20; Disable Device DC 20. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 2,000 gp.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Poison Needle Trap: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 2; mechanical; touch trigger; repair reset; lock bypass (Open Lock DC 30); Atk +17 me
lee (1 plus poison, needle); poison (blue whinnis, DC 14 Fortitude save resists (poison only), 1 Con/unconsciousness); Search DC 22; Disable Device DC 17. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 4,720 gp.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spiked Pit Trap: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 2; mechanical; location trigger; automatic reset; DC 20 R
eflex save avoids; 20 ft. deep (2d6, fall); multiple targets (first target in each of two adjacent 5-ft. squares); pit spikes (Atk +10 melee, 1d4 spikes per target for 1d4+2 each); Search DC 18; Disable Device DC 15. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{
\fs20\cf0 1,600 gp.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Tripping Chain: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 2; mechanical; location trigger; automatic reset; multiple traps (tripping and melee attack); Atk +15 melee touch (trip), Atk +15 melee (2d4+2, spiked chain); Search DC 15; Disable Device DC 18. }{\i\fs20\cf0 
Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 3,800 gp. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Note: }{\fs20\cf0 This trap is really one CR 
1 trap that trips and a second CR 1 trap that attacks with a spiked chain. If the tripping attack succeeds, a +4 bonus applies to the spiked chain attack because the opponent is prone.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Well-Camouflaged Pit Trap: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 2; mechanical; location trigger; repair reset; DC 20 Reflex save avoids; 10 ft. deep (1d6, fall); Search DC 27; Disable Device DC 20. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 4,400 gp.
\par }{\fs21\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {CR 3 Traps
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\i\fs20\cf0 Burning Hands }{\b\fs20\cf0 Trap: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 3; magic device; proximity trigger }{\i\fs20\cf0 (alarm); }{\fs20\cf0 
automatic reset; spell effect (}{\i\fs20\cf0 burning hands, }{\fs20\cf0 5th-level wizard, 5d4 fire, DC 11 Reflex save half damage); Search DC 26; Disable Device DC 26. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 2,500 gp, 200 XP.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Camouflaged Pit Trap: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 3; mechanical; location trigger; manual reset; DC 20 Reflex save avoids; 30 ft. deep (3d6, fall); multiple targets (first target in each of two adjacent squares); Search DC 24; Disable Device DC 18. }{
\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 4,800 gp.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Ceiling Pendulum: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 3; mechanical; timed trigger; automatic reset; Atk +15 melee (1d12+8/x3, greataxe); Search DC 15; Disable Device DC 27. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 14,100 gp.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Fire Trap:}{\i\fs20\cf0  }{\fs20\cf0 CR 3; spell; spell trigger; no reset; spell effect (}{\i\fs20\cf0 fire trap, }{\fs20\cf0 3rd-level druid, 1d4+3 fire, DC 13 Reflex save half damage); Search DC 27; Disable Device DC 27. }{\i\fs20\cf0 
Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 85 gp to hire NPC spellcaster.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Extended }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Bane }{\b\fs20\cf0 Trap: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 3; magic device; proximity trigger }{\i\fs20\cf0 (detect good); }{\fs20\cf0 automatic reset; spell effect (extended }{\i\fs20\cf0 bane, }{\fs20\cf0 
3rd-level cleric, DC 13 Will save negates); Search DC 27; Disable Device DC 27. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 3,500 gp, 280 XP.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Ghoul Touch }{\b\fs20\cf0 Trap: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 3; magic device; touch trigger; automatic reset; spell effect (}{\i\fs20\cf0 ghoul touch, }{\fs20\cf0 3rd-level wizard, DC 13 Fortitude save negates); Search DC 27; Disable Device DC 27. }{
\i\fs20\cf0 Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 3,000 gp, 240 XP. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Hail of Needles: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 3; mechanical; location trigger; manual reset; Atk +20 ranged (2d4); Search DC 22; Disable Device DC 22. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 5,400 gp.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Acid Arrow }{\b\fs20\cf0 Trap:}{\fs20\cf0  CR 3; magic device; proximity trigger }{\i\fs20\cf0 (alarm); }{\fs20\cf0 automatic reset; Atk +2 ranged touch; spell effect (}{\i\fs20\cf0 acid arrow, }{\fs20\cf0 
3rd-level wizard, 2d4 acid/round for 2 rounds); Search DC 27; Disable Device DC 27. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 3,000 gp, 240 XP.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Pit Trap:}{\fs20\cf0  CR 3; mechanical, location trigger; manual reset; DC 20 Reflex save avoids; 60 ft. deep (6d6, fall); Search DC 20; Disable Device DC 20. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 3,000 gp.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Poisoned Arrow Trap:}{\fs20\cf0 
 CR 3; mechanical; touch trigger; manual reset; lock bypass (Open Lock DC 30); Atk +12 ranged (1d8 plus poison, arrow); poison (Large monstrous scorpion venom, DC 14 Fortitude save resists, 1d4 Con/1d4 Con); Search DC 19; Disable Device DC 15. }{
\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 2,900 gp.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spiked Pit Trap: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 3; mechanical; location trigger; manual reset; DC 20 Reflex save avoids; 20 ft. deep (2d6, fall); multiple targets (first target in each of two adjacent 5-ft. squares); pit spikes (
Atk +10 melee, 1d4 spikes per target for 1d4+2 each); Search DC 21; Disable Device DC 20. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 3,600 gp.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Stone Blocks from Ceiling: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 3; mechanical; location trigger; repair reset; Atk +10 melee (4d6, stone blocks); Search DC 25; Disable Device DC 20. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 5,400 gp.
\par }{\b\fs21\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {CR 4 Traps
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\i\fs20\cf0 Bestow Curse }{\b\fs20\cf0 Trap: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 4; magic device; touch trigger }{\i\fs20\cf0 (detect chaos); }{\fs20\cf0 
automatic reset; spell effect (}{\i\fs20\cf0 bestow curse, }{\fs20\cf0 5th-level cleric, DC 14 Will save negates); Search DC 28; Disable Device DC 28. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 8,000 gp, 640 XP.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Camouflaged Pit Trap: }{\fs20\cf0 
CR 4; mechanical; location trigger; manual reset; DC 20 Reflex save avoids; 40 ft. deep (4d6, fall); multiple targets (first target in each of two adjacent 5-ft. squares); Search DC 25; Disable Device DC 17. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 
6,800 gp. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Collapsing Column:}{\fs20\cf0  CR 4; mechanical; touch trigger (attached); no reset; Atk +15 melee (6d6, stone blocks); Search DC 20; Disable Device DC 24. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 8,800 gp.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Glyph of Warding }{\b\fs20\cf0 (Blast): }{\fs20\cf0 CR 4; spell; spell trigger; no reset; spell effect (}{\i\fs20\cf0 glyph of warding }{\fs20\cf0 
[blast], 5th-level cleric, 2d8 acid, DC 14 Reflex save half damage); multiple targets (all targets within 5 ft.); Search DC 28; Disable Device DC 28. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 350 gp to hire NPC spellcaster.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Lightning Bolt }{\b\fs20\cf0 Trap: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 4; magic device; proximity trigger }{\i\fs20\cf0 (alarm); }{\fs20\cf0 automatic reset; spell effect (}{\i\fs20\cf0 lightning bolt, }{\fs20\cf0 
5th-level wizard, 5d6 electricity, DC 14 Reflex save half damage); Search DC 28; Disable Device DC 28. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 7,500 gp, 600 XP.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Pit Trap:}{\fs20\cf0  CR 4; mechanical, location trigger; manual reset; DC 20 Reflex save avoids; 80 ft. deep (8d6, fall); Search DC 20; Disable Device DC 20. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 4,000 gp.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Poisoned Dart Trap:}{\fs20\cf0  CR 4; mechanical; location trigger; manual reset; Atk +15 ranged (1d4+4 plus poison, dart); multiple targets (1 dart per target in a 10-f
t.-by-10-ft. area); poison (Small monstrous centipede poison, DC 10 Fortitude save resists, 1d2 Dex/1d2 Dex); Search DC 21; Disable Device DC 22. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 12,090 gp.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Sepia Snake Sigil }{\b\fs20\cf0 Trap: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 4; spell; spell trigger; no reset; spell effect (}{\i\fs20\cf0 sepia snake sigil, }{\fs20\cf0 5th-level wizard, DC 14 Reflex save negates); Search DC 28; Disable Device DC 28. }{
\i\fs20\cf0 Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 650 gp to hire NPC spellcaster.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spiked Pit Trap: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 4; mechanical; location trigger; automatic reset; DC 20 Reflex save avoids; 60 ft. deep (6d6, fall); pit spikes (Atk +10 melee, 1d4 spikes per target for 1d4+5 each); Search DC 20; Disable Device DC 20. }{
\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 4,000 gp. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Wall Scythe Trap: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 4; mechanical; location trigger; automatic reset; Atk +20 melee (2d4+8/x4, scythe); Search DC 21; Disable Device DC 18. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 17,200 gp.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Water-Filled Room Trap: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 4; mechanical; location trigger; automatic reset; multiple targets (all targets in a 10-ft.-by-10-ft. room); never miss; onset delay (5 rounds); liquid; Search DC 17; Disable Device DC 23. }{
\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 11,200 gp.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Wide-Mouth Spiked Pit Trap:}{\fs20\cf0  CR 4; mechanical; location trigger; manual reset; DC 20 Reflex save avoids; 20 ft. deep (2d6, fall); m
ultiple targets (first target in each of two adjacent 5-ft. squares); pit spikes (Atk +10 melee, 1d4 spikes per target for 1d4+2 each); Search DC 18; Disable Device DC 25. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 7,200 gp.
\par }{\fs21\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {CR 5 Traps
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 Camouflaged Pit Trap:}{\fs20\cf0  CR 5; mechanical; location
 trigger; manual reset; DC 20 Reflex save avoids; 50 ft. deep (5d6, fall); multiple targets (first target in each of two adjacent 5-ft. squares); Search DC 25; Disable Device DC 17. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 8,500 gp.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Doorknob Smeared with Contact Poison: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 5; mechanical; touch trigger (attached); manual reset; poison (nitharit, DC 13 Fortitude save resists, 0/3d6 Con); Search DC 25; Disable Device DC 19. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{
\fs20\cf0 9,650 gp.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Falling Block Trap:}{\fs20\cf0  CR 5; mechanical; location trigger; manual reset; Atk +15 melee (6d6); multiple targets (can strike all characters in two adjacent specified squares); Search DC 20; Disable Device DC 25. }{\i\fs20\cf0 
Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 15,000 gp.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Fire Trap: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 5; spell; spell trigger; no reset; spell effect (}{\i\fs20\cf0 fire trap, }{\fs20\cf0 7th-level wizard, 1d4+7 fire, DC 16 Reflex save half damage); Search DC 29; Disable Device DC 29. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Cost: }{
\fs20\cf0 305 gp to hire NPC spellcaster.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Fireball }{\b\fs20\cf0 Trap: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 5; magic device; touch trigger; automatic reset; spell effect (}{\i\fs20\cf0 fireball, }{\fs20\cf0 8th-level wizard, 8d6 fire, DC 14 Reflex save half damage); Search DC 28; Disable Device DC 28. 
}{\i\fs20\cf0 Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 12,000 gp, 960 XP.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Flooding Room Trap:}{\fs20\cf0  CR 5; mechanical; proximity trigger; automatic reset; no attack roll necessary (see note below); Search DC 20; Disable Device DC 25. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Note: }{\fs20\cf0 Room floods in 4 rounds. }{\i\fs20\cf0 
Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 17,500 gp.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Fusillade of Darts:}{\fs20\cf0  CR 5; mechanical; location trigger; manual reset; Atk +18 ranged (1d4+1, dart); multiple targets (1d8 darts per target in a 10-ft.-by-10-ft. area); Search DC 19; Disable Device DC 25. }{\i\fs20\cf0 
Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 18,000 gp.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Moving Executioner Statue: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 5; mechanical; location trigger; automatic reset; hidden switch bypass (Search DC 25); Atk +16 melee (1d12+8/x3, greataxe); multiple targets (both arms attack); Search DC 25; Disable Device DC 18. }{
\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 22,500 gp.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Phantasmal Killer }{\b\fs20\cf0 Trap: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 5; magic device; proximity trigger (}{\i\fs20\cf0 alarm }{\fs20\cf0 covering the entire room); automatic reset; spell effect (}{\i\fs20\cf0 phantasmal killer, }{\fs20\cf0 
7th-level wizard, DC 16 Will save for disbelief and DC 16 Fort save for partial effect); Search DC 29; Disable Device DC 29. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 14,000 gp, 1,120 XP.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Pit Trap: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 5; mechanical, location trigger; manual reset; DC 20 Reflex save avoids; 100 ft. deep (10d6, fall); Search DC 20; Disable Device DC 20. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 5,000 gp.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Poison Wall Spikes: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 5; mechanical; location trigger; manua
l reset; Atk +16 melee (1d8+4 plus poison, spike); multiple targets (closest target in each of two adjacent 5-ft. squares); poison (Medium monstrous spider venom, DC 12 Fortitude save resists, 1d4 Str/1d4 Str); Search DC 17; Disable Device DC 21. }{
\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 12,650 gp.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spiked Pit Trap: }{\fs20\cf0 
CR 5; mechanical; location trigger; manual reset; DC 25 Reflex save avoids; 40 ft. deep (4d6, fall); multiple targets (first target in each of two adjacent 5-ft. squares); pit spikes (Atk +10 melee, 1d4 spikes per target fo
r 1d4+4 each); Search DC 21; Disable Device DC 20. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 13,500 gp.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spiked Pit Trap (80 Ft. Deep): }{\fs20\cf0 CR 5; mechanical; location trigger, manual reset; DC 20 Reflex save avoids; 80 ft. deep (8d6, fall), pit spikes (Atk +10 melee, 1d4 spikes for 1d4+5 each); Search DC 20; Disable Device DC 20. }{
\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 5,000 gp. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Ungol Dust Vapor Trap: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 5; mechanical
; location trigger; manual reset; gas; multiple targets (all targets in a 10-ft.-by-10-ft. room); never miss; onset delay (2 rounds); poison (ungol dust, DC 15 Fortitude save resists, 1 Cha/1d6 Cha plus 1 Cha drain); Search DC 20; Disable Device DC 16. }{
\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 9,000 gp.
\par }{\fs21\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {CR 6 Traps 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 Built-to-Collapse Wall:}{\fs20\cf0 
 CR 6; mechanical; proximity trigger; no reset; Atk +20 melee (8d6, stone blocks); multiple targets (all targets in a 10-ft.-by-10-ft. area); Search DC 14; Disable Device DC 16. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 15,000 gp.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Compacting Room: }{\fs20\cf0 
CR 6; mechanical; timed trigger; automatic reset; hidden switch bypass (Search DC 25); walls move together (12d6, crush); multiple targets (all targets in a 10-ft.-by- 10-ft. room); never miss; onset delay (4 rounds); Search DC 20; Disable Device DC 22. }
{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 25,200 gp.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Flame Strike }{\b\fs20\cf0 Trap: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 6; magic device; proximity trigger }{\i\fs20\cf0 (detect magic); }{\fs20\cf0 automatic reset; spell effect (}{\i\fs20\cf0 flame strike, }{\fs20\cf0 
9th-level cleric, 9d6 fire, DC 17 Reflex save half damage); Search DC 30; Disable Device DC 30. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 22,750 gp, 1,820 XP.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Fusillade of Spears: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 6; mechanical; proximity trigger; repair reset; Atk +21 ranged (1d8, spear); multiple targets (1d6 spears per target in a 10 ft.-by-10-ft. area); Search DC 26; Disable Device DC 20. }{\i\fs20\cf0 
Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 31,200 gp.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Glyph of Warding }{\b\fs20\cf0 (Blast): }{\fs20\cf0 CR 6; spell; spell trigger; no reset; spell effect (}{\i\fs20\cf0 glyph of warding }{\fs20\cf0 
[blast], 16th-level cleric, 8d8 sonic, DC 14 Reflex save half damage); multiple targets (all targets within 5 ft.); Search DC 28; Disable Device DC 28. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 680 gp to hire NPC spellcaster.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Lightning Bolt }{\b\fs20\cf0 Trap: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 6; magic device; proximity trigger }{\i\fs20\cf0 (alarm); }{\fs20\cf0 automatic reset; spell effect (}{\i\fs20\cf0 lightning bolt, }{\fs20\cf0 
10th-level wizard, 10d6 electricity, DC 14 Reflex save half damage); Search DC 28; Disable Device DC 28. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 15,000 gp, 1,200 XP.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spiked Blocks from Ceiling: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 6; mechanical; location trigger; repair reset; Atk +20 melee (6d6, spikes); multiple targets (all targets in a 10-ft.-by-10-ft. area); Search DC 24; Disable Device DC 20. }{\i\fs20\cf0 
Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 21,600 gp.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spiked Pit Trap (100 Ft. Deep):}{\fs20\cf0 
 CR 6; mechanical; location trigger, manual reset; DC 20 Reflex save avoids; 100 ft. deep (10d6, fall); pit spikes (Atk +10 melee, 1d4 spikes per target for 1d4+5 each); Search DC 20; Disable Device DC 20. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 6,000 gp.

\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Whirling Poison Blades: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 6; mechanical; timed trigger; automatic reset; hidden lock bypass (Search DC 25, Open Lock DC 30); Atk +10 melee (1d4+4/19\endash 
20 plus poison, dagger); poison (purple worm poison, DC 24 Fortitude save resists, 1d6 Str/2d6 Str); multiple targets (one target in each of three preselected 5-ft. squares); Search DC 20; Disable Device DC 20. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 
30,200 gp.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Wide-Mouth Pit Trap: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 6; mechanical; location trigger, manual reset; DC 25 Reflex save avoids; 40 ft. deep (4d6, fall); multiple targets (all targets within a 10-ft.-by-10-ft. area); Search DC 26; Disable Device DC 25. }{
\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 28,200 gp.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Wyvern Arrow Trap: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 6; mechanical; proximity trigger; manual reset; Atk +14 ranged (1d8 plus poison, arrow); poison (wyvern poison, DC 17 Fortitude save resists, 2d6 Con/2d6 Con); Search DC 20; Disable Device DC 16. }{
\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 17,400 gp. 
\par }{\b\fs21\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {CR 7 Traps
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\i\fs20\cf0 Acid Fog }{\b\fs20\cf0 Trap: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 7; magic device; proximity trigger }{\i\fs20\cf0 (alarm); }{\fs20\cf0 
automatic reset; spell effect (}{\i\fs20\cf0 acid fog, }{\fs20\cf0 11th-level wizard, 2d6/round acid for 11 rounds); Search DC 31; Disable Device DC 31. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 33,000 gp, 2,640 XP.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Blade Barrier }{\b\fs20\cf0 Trap: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 7; magic device; proximity trigger }{\i\fs20\cf0 (alarm); }{\fs20\cf0 automatic reset; spell effect (}{\i\fs20\cf0 blade barrier, }{\fs20\cf0 11th-level cleric, 11d6 slashi
ng, DC 19 Reflex save half damage); Search DC 31; Disable Device DC 31. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 33,000 gp, 2,640 XP.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Burnt Othur Vapor Trap: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 7; mechanical; location trigger; repair reset; gas; multiple targets (all targets in a 10-ft.-by-10-ft. room); never miss; onset d
elay (3 rounds); poison (burnt othur fumes, DC 18 Fortitude save resists, 1 Con drain/3d6 Con); Search DC 21; Disable Device DC 21. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 17,500 gp.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Chain Lightning }{\b\fs20\cf0 Trap: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 7; magic device; proximity trigger }{\i\fs20\cf0 (alarm); }{\fs20\cf0 automatic reset; spell effect (}{\i\fs20\cf0 chain lightning, }{\fs20\cf0 
11th-level wizard, 11d6 electricity to target nearest center of trigger area plus 5d6 electricity to each of up to eleven secondary targets, DC 19 Reflex save half damage); Search DC 31; Disable Device DC 31. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 
33,000 gp, 2,640 XP. 
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Black Tentacles }{\b\fs20\cf0 Trap: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 7; magic device; proximity trigger }{\i\fs20\cf0 (alarm); }{\fs20\cf0 no reset; spell effect (}{\i\fs20\cf0 black tentacles, }{\fs20\cf0 
7th-level wizard, 1d4+7 tentacles, Atk +7 melee [1d6+4, tentacle]); multiple targets (up to six tentacles per target in each of two adjacent 5-ft. squares); Search DC 29; Disable Device DC 29. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 1,400 gp, 112 XP.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Fusillade of Greenblood Oil Darts:}{\fs20\cf0  CR 7; mechanical; location trigger; manual reset; Atk +18 ranged (1d4+1 plus poison, dart); poison (greenbl
ood oil, DC 13 Fortitude save resists, 1 Con/ 1d2 Con); multiple targets (1d8 darts per target in a 10-ft.-by-10-ft. area); Search DC 25; Disable Device DC 25. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 33,000 gp.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Lock Covered in Dragon Bile: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 7; mechanical; touch trigger (attached); no reset; poison (dragon bile, DC 26 Fortitude save resists, 3d6 Str/0); Search DC 27; Disable Device DC 16. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 
11,300 gp.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Summon Monster VI }{\b\fs20\cf0 Trap:}{\fs20\cf0  CR 7; magic device; proximity trigger }{\i\fs20\cf0 (alarm); }{\fs20\cf0 no reset; spell effect (}{\i\fs20\cf0 summon monster VI, }{\fs20\cf0 11th-l
evel wizard), Search DC 31; Disable Device DC 31. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 3,300 gp, 264 XP.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Water-Filled Room:}{\fs20\cf0  CR 7; mechanical; location trigger; manual reset; multiple targets (all targets in a 10-ft.-by-10-ft. room); never miss; onset delay (3 rounds); water; Search DC 20; Disable Device DC 25. }{\i\fs20\cf0 
Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 21,000 gp. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Well-Camouflaged Pit Trap:}{\fs20\cf0  CR 7; mechanical; location trigger; repair reset; DC 25 Reflex save avoids; 70 ft. deep (7d6, fall); multiple targets (first target in each of two adjacent 5-ft. squares); Search
 DC 27; Disable Device DC 18. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 24,500 gp. 
\par }{\fs21\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {CR 8 Traps
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 Deathblade Wall Scythe:}{\fs20\cf0 
 CR 8; mechanical; touch trigger; manual reset; Atk +16 melee (2d4+8 plus poison, scythe); poison (deathblade, DC 20 Fortitude save resists, 1d6 Con/2d6 Con); Search DC 24; Disable Device DC 19. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 31,400 gp.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Destruction }{\b\fs20\cf0 Trap:}{\fs20\cf0  CR 8; magic device; touch trigger }{\i\fs20\cf0 (alarm); }{\fs20\cf0 automatic reset; spell effect (}{\i\fs20\cf0 destruction, }{\fs20\cf0 
13th-level cleric, DC 20 Fortitude save for 10d6 damage); Search DC 32; Disable Device DC 32. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 45,500 gp, 3,640 XP.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Earthquake }{\b\fs20\cf0 Trap: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 8; magic device; proximity trigger }{\i\fs20\cf0 (alarm); }{\fs20\cf0 automatic reset; spell effect (}{\i\fs20\cf0 earthquake, }{\fs20\cf0 
13th-level cleric, 65-ft. radius, DC 15 or 20 Reflex save, depending on terrain); Search DC 32; Disable Device DC 32. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 45,500 gp, 3,640 XP.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Insanity Mist Vapor Trap:}{\fs20\cf0 
 CR 8; mechanical; location trigger; repair reset; gas; never miss; onset delay (1 round); poison (insanity mist, DC 15 Fortitude save resists, 1d4 Wis/2d6 Wis); multiple targets (all targets in a 10-ft.-by-10-
ft. room); Search DC 25; Disable Device DC 20. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 23,900 gp.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Acid Arrow }{\b\fs20\cf0 Trap: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 8; magic device; visual trigger }{\i\fs20\cf0 (true seeing); }{\fs20\cf0 automatic reset; multiple traps (two simultaneous }{\i\fs20\cf0 acid arrow }{\fs20\cf0 
traps); Atk +9 ranged touch and +9 ranged touch; spell effect (}{\i\fs20\cf0 acid arrow, }{\fs20\cf0 18th-level wizard, 2d4 acid damage for 7 rounds); Search DC 27; Disable Device DC 27. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 83,500 gp, 4,680 XP. }{\i\fs20\cf0 
Note: }{\fs20\cf0 This trap is really two CR 6 }{\i\fs20\cf0 acid arrow }{\fs20\cf0 traps that fire simultaneously, using the same trigger and reset.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Power Word Stun }{\b\fs20\cf0 Trap:}{\fs20\cf0  CR 8; magic device; touch trigger; no reset; spell effect (}{\i\fs20\cf0 power word stun, }{\fs20\cf0 13th-level wizard), Search DC 32; Disable Device DC 32. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 
4,550 gp, 364 XP.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Prismatic Spray }{\b\fs20\cf0 Trap: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 8; magic device; proximity trigger }{\i\fs20\cf0 (alarm); }{\fs20\cf0 automatic reset; spell effect (}{\i\fs20\cf0 prismatic spray, }{\fs20\cf0 
13th-level wizard, DC 20 Reflex, Fortitude, or Will save, depending on effect); Search DC 32; Disable Device DC 32. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 45,500 gp, 3,640 XP.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Reverse Gravity }{\b\fs20\cf0 Trap:}{\fs20\cf0  CR 8; magic device; proximity trigger (}{\i\fs20\cf0 alarm, }{\fs20\cf0 10-ft. area); automatic reset; spell effect (}{\i\fs20\cf0 reverse gravity}{\fs20\cf0 
, 13th-level wizard, 6d6 fall [upon hitting the ceiling of the 60-ft.- high room], then 6d6 fall [upon falling 60 ft. to the floor when the spell ends], DC 20 Reflex save avoids damage); Search DC 32; Disable Device DC 32. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 
45,500 gp, 3,640 XP.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Well-Camouflaged Pit Trap:}{\fs20\cf0  CR 8; mechanical; location trigger; repair reset; DC 20 Reflex save avoids; 100 ft. deep (10d6, fall); Search DC 27; Disable Device DC 18. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 16,000 gp.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Word of Chaos }{\b\fs20\cf0 Trap:}{\fs20\cf0  CR 8; magic device; proximity trigger }{\i\fs20\cf0 (detect law); }{\fs20\cf0 automatic reset; spell effect (}{\i\fs20\cf0 word of chaos, }{\fs20\cf0 
13th-level cleric); Search DC 32; Disable Device DC 32. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 46,000 gp, 3,680 XP.
\par }{\fs21\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {CR 9 Traps
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 Drawer Handle Smeared with Contact Poison: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 9; mechanical; touch trigg
er (attached); manual reset; poison (black lotus extract, DC 20 Fortitude save resists, 3d6 Con/3d6 Con); Search DC 18; Disable Device DC 26. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 21,600 gp. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Dropping Ceiling:}{\fs20\cf0  CR 9; mechanical; location trigger; repair reset; ceiling moves down (
12d6, crush); multiple targets (all targets in a 10-ft.-by-10-ft. room); never miss; onset delay (1 round); Search DC 20; Disable Device DC 16. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 12,600 gp. 
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Incendiary Cloud }{\b\fs20\cf0 Trap:}{\fs20\cf0  CR 9; magic device; proximity trigger }{\i\fs20\cf0 (alarm); }{\fs20\cf0 automatic reset; spell effect (}{\i\fs20\cf0 incendiary cloud, }{\fs20\cf0 
15th-level wizard, 4d6/round for 15 rounds, DC 22 Reflex save half damage); Search DC 33; Disable Device DC 33. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 60,000 gp, 4,800 XP. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Wide-Mouth Pit Trap:}{\fs20\cf0  CR 9; mechanical; location trigger; manual reset; DC 25 Reflex save avoids; 100 ft. deep (10d6, fall); multiple targets (all targets within a 10-ft.-by-10-ft. area); Search DC 25; Disable Device DC 25. }{
\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 40,500 gp. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Wide-Mouth Spiked Pit with Poisoned Spikes:}{\fs20\cf0 
 CR 9; mechanical; location trigger; manual reset; hidden lock bypass  (Search DC 25, Open Lock DC 30); DC 20 Reflex save avoids; 70 ft. deep (7d6, fall); multiple targets (all targets within a 10-ft.-by-10-ft. area); pit spikes (Atk +10 me
lee, 1d4 spikes per target for 1d4+5 plus poison each); poison (giant wasp poison, DC 14 Fortitude save resists, 1d6 Dex/1d6 Dex); Search DC 20; Disable Device DC 20. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 11,910 gp.
\par }{\fs21\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {CR 10 Traps
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 Crushing Room:}{\fs20\cf0  CR 10; mechanical; location trigger;
 automatic reset; walls move together (16d6, crush); multiple targets (all targets in a 10-ft.-by-10-ft. room); never miss; onset delay (2 rounds); Search DC 22; Disable Device DC 20. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 29,000 gp.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Crushing Wall Trap:}{\fs20\cf0  CR 10; mechanical; location trigger; automatic reset; no attack roll required (18d6, crush); Search DC 20; Disable Device DC 25. Market Price: 25,000 gp. 
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Energy Drain }{\b\fs20\cf0 Trap:}{\fs20\cf0  CR 10; magic device; visual trigger (}{\i\fs20\cf0 true seeing}{\fs20\cf0 ); automatic reset; Atk +8 ranged touch; spell effect (}{\i\fs20\cf0 energy drain, }{\fs20\cf0 
17th-level wizard, 2d4 negative levels for 24 hours, DC 23 Fortitude save negates); Search DC 34; Disable Device DC 34. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 124,000 gp, 7,920 XP.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Forcecage }{\b\fs20\cf0 and }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Summon Monster VII }{\b\fs20\cf0 trap:}{\fs20\cf0  CR 10; magic device; proximity trigger }{\i\fs20\cf0 (alarm); }{\fs20\cf0 automatic reset; multiple traps (one }{\i\fs20\cf0 forcecage }{
\fs20\cf0 trap and one }{\i\fs20\cf0 summon monster VII }{\fs20\cf0 trap that summons a hamatula); spell effect (}{\i\fs20\cf0 forcecage, }{\fs20\cf0 13th-level wizard), spell effect (}{\i\fs20\cf0 summon monster VII, }{\fs20\cf0 
13th-level wizard, hamatula); Search DC 32; Disable Device DC 32. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 241,000 gp, 7,280 XP. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Note: }{\fs20\cf0 This trap is really one CR 8 trap that creates a }{\i\fs20\cf0 forcecage }{\fs20\cf0 
and a second CR 8 trap that summons a hamatula in the same area. If both succeed, the hamatula appears inside the }{\i\fs20\cf0 forcecage. }{\fs20\cf0 These effects are independent of each other.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Poisoned Spiked Pit Trap: }{\fs20\cf0 
CR 10; mechanical; location trigger; manual reset; hidden lock bypass (Search DC 25, Open Lock DC 30); DC 20 Reflex save avoids; 50 ft. deep (5d6, fall); multiple targets (first target in each of two adjacent 5-ft. squares);
 pit spikes (Atk +10 melee, 1d4 spikes per target for 1d4+5 plus poison each); poison (purple worm poison, DC 24 Fortitude save resists, 1d6 Str/2d6 Str); Search DC 16; Disable Device DC 25. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Market Price: }{\fs20\cf0 19,700 gp. 
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Wail of the Banshee }{\b\fs20\cf0 Trap:}{\fs20\cf0  CR 10; magic device; proximity trigger }{\i\fs20\cf0 (alarm); }{\fs20\cf0 automatic reset; spell effect (}{\i\fs20\cf0 wail of the banshee, }{\fs20\cf0 
17th-level wizard, DC 23 Fortitude save negates); multiple targets (up to 17 creatures); Search DC 34; Disable Device DC 34. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 76,500 gp, 6,120 XP.
\par }{\cf0 
\par DESIGNING A TRAP
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Mechanical Traps: }{\fs20\cf0 Simply select the elements you want the trap to have and add up the adjustments to the trap\rquote 
s Challenge Rating that those elements require (see Table: CR Modifiers for Mechanical Traps) to arrive at the trap\rquote s final CR. From the CR you can derive the DC of the Craft (trapmaking) checks a character must make to construct the trap.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Magic Traps:}{\fs20\cf0  As with mechanical traps, you don\rquote t have to do anything other than decide what elements you want and then determine the CR of the resulting trap (se
e Table: CR Modifiers for Magic Traps). If a player character wants to design and construct a magic trap, he must have the Craft Wondrous Item feat. In addition, he must be able to cast the spell or spells that the trap requires\emdash 
or, failing that, he must be able to hire an NPC to cast the spells for him.
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par Challenge Rating of a Trap
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 
To calculate the Challenge Rating of a trap, add all the CR modifiers (see the tables below) to the base CR for the trap type.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Mechanical Trap: }{\fs20\cf0 The base CR for a mechanical trap is 0. If your final CR is 0 or lower, add features until you get a CR of 1 or higher.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Magic Trap:}{\fs20\cf0  For a spell trap or magic device trap, the base CR is 1. The highest-level spell used modifies the CR (see Table: CR Modifiers for Magic Traps).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Average Damage:}{\fs20\cf0 
 If a trap (either mechanical or magic) does hit point damage, calculate the average damage for a successful hit and round that value to the nearest multiple of 7. Use this value to adjust the Challenge Rating of the trap, as indicated on th
e tables below. Damage from poisons and pit spikes does not count toward this value, but damage from a high strength rating and extra damage from multiple attacks does.
\par For a magic trap, only one modifier applies to the CR\emdash either the level of the highest-level spell used in the trap, or the average damage figure, whichever is larger.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Multiple Traps: }{\fs20\cf0 If a trap is really two or more connected traps that affect approximately the same area, determine the CR of each one separately.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Multiple Dependent Traps: }{\fs20\cf0 If one trap depends on the success of the other (that is, you can avoid the second trap altogether by not falling victim to the first), they must be treated as separate traps.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Multiple Independent Traps: }{\fs20\cf0 If two or more traps act independently (that is, none depends on the success of another to activate), use their CRs to determine their combined Encounter Level as though they were monsters}{
\i\fs20\cf0 . }{\fs20\cf0 The resulting Encounter Level is the CR for the combined traps.
\par }{\fs21\cf0 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8434\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 
{\b\fs20\cf0 Table: CR Modifiers for Mechanical Traps}{\b\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8434\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3898 \cellx8434\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Feature}{\b\fs19\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 CR Modifier}{\b\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3898 \cellx8434\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 Search DC}{\i\fs19\cf0 
\cell \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3898 \cellx8434\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
15 or lower}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 1}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3898 \cellx8434\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 25\endash 29}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +1}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3898 \cellx8434\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 30 or higher}{\fs19\cf0 
\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +2}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3898 \cellx8434\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 Disable Device DC}{\i\fs19\cf0 \cell \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs19\cf0 
\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3898 \cellx8434\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 15 or lower}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 1}{
\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3898 \cellx8434\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
25\endash 29}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +1}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3898 \cellx8434\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 30 or higher}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +2}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3898 \cellx8434\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 
Reflex Save DC (Pit or Other Save-Dependent Trap)}{\i\fs19\cf0 \cell \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3898 \cellx8434\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 15 or lower}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 1}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3898 \cellx8434\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 16\endash 24}{\fs19\cf0 
\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3898 \cellx8434\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 25\endash 29}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +1}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3898 \cellx8434\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 30 or higher}{\fs19\cf0 
\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +2}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3898 \cellx8434\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 Attack Bonus (Melee or Ranged Attack Trap)}{\i\fs19\cf0 \cell \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3898 \cellx8434\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +0 or lower}{\fs19\cf0 
\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 2}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3898 \cellx8434\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +1 to +5}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 1}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3898 \cellx8434\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +6 to +14}{\fs19\cf0 
\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3898 \cellx8434\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +15 to +19}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +1}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3898 \cellx8434\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +20 to +24}{\fs19\cf0 
\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +2}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3898 \cellx8434\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 Damage/Effect}{\i\fs19\cf0 \cell \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs19\cf0 
\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3898 \cellx8434\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Average damage}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +1/7 points*}{
\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3898 \cellx8434\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 
Miscellaneous Features}{\i\fs19\cf0 \cell \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3898 \cellx8434\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Alchemical device}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Level of spell mimicked}{\fs19\cf0 
\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3898 \cellx8434\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Liquid}{
\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +5}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3898 \cellx8434\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Multiple target}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +1 (or 0 if never miss)}{\fs19\cf0 
\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3898 \cellx8434\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
Onset delay 1 round}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +3}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3898 \cellx8434\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Onset delay 2 rounds}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +2}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3898 \cellx8434\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Onset delay 3 rounds}{
\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +1}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3898 \cellx8434\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Onset delay 4+ rounds}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 1}{\fs19\cf0 \cell 
}\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3898 \cellx8434\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Poison}{\fs19\cf0 \cell 
}\pard \ql \fi447\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 CR of poison (see below)}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3898 \cellx8434\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3675\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3257 \cellx7777\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth641 \cellx8434\pard \ql \fi360\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Black adder venom}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +1}{
\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \fi267\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Large scorpion venom}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +3}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3675\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3257 
\cellx7777\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth641 \cellx8434\row }\pard \ql \fi360\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Black lotus extract}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +8}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \fi267\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Malyss root paste}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +3}{
\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3675\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3257 \cellx7777\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth641 \cellx8434\row }\pard 
\ql \fi360\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Bloodroot}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +1}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \fi267\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
Medium spider venom}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +2}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3675\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3257 \cellx7777\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth641 \cellx8434\row 
}\pard \ql \fi360\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Blue whinnis}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +1}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \fi267\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
Nitharit}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +4}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3675\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3257 \cellx7777\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth641 \cellx8434\row }\pard 
\ql \fi360\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Burnt othur fumes}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +6}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \fi267\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
Purple worm poison}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +4}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3675\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3257 \cellx7777\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth641 \cellx8434\row }\pard 
\ql \fi360\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Deathblade}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +5}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \fi267\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
Sassone leaf residue}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +3}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3675\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3257 \cellx7777\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth641 \cellx8434\row 
}\pard \ql \fi360\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Dragon bile}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +6}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \fi267\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
Shadow essence}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +3}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3675\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3257 \cellx7777\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth641 \cellx8434\row }\pard 
\ql \fi360\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Giant wasp poison}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +3}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \fi267\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
Small centipede poison}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +1}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3675\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3257 \cellx7777\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth641 \cellx8434\row 
}\pard \ql \fi360\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Greenblood oil}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +1}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \fi267\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20\cf0 Terinav root}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +5}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3675\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3257 \cellx7777\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth641 \cellx8434\row 
}\pard \ql \fi360\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Insanity mist}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +4}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \fi267\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
Ungol dust}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +3}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3675\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3257 \cellx7777\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth641 \cellx8434\row }\pard 
\ql \fi267\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Wyvern poison}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +5}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \fi267\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \cell 
}\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3675\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3257 \cellx7777\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth641 \cellx8434\row }\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3898 \cellx8434\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Pit spikes}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 +1}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3898 \cellx8434\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Touch attack}{
\fs19\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 +1}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4437\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3898 \cellx8434\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8434
\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 * Rounded to the nearest multiple of 7 (round up for an average that lies exactly between two numbers). }{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8434\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\fs21\cf0 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6910\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 
Table: CR Modifiers for Magic Traps}{\b\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6910\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1614\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6910\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Feature}{
\b\fs19\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 CR Modifier}{\b\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1614\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6910\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Highest-level spell }{\fs19\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 + Spell level OR +1 per 7 points of average damage per round*}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1614\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6910\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6910\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 \fs19\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 *See the note following Table: CR Modifiers for Mechanical Traps.
}{\cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6910\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs21\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Mechanical Trap Cost
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 
The base cost of a mechanical trap is 1,000 gp. Apply all the modifiers from Table: Cost Modifiers for Mechanical Traps for the various features you\rquote ve added to the trap to get the modified base cost.
\par The final cost is equal to (modified base cost x Challenge Rating) + extra costs. The minimum cost for a mechanical trap is (CR x 100) gp.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs19\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 After you\rquote 
ve multiplied the modified base cost by the Challenge Rating, add the price of any alchemical items or poison you incorporated into the trap. If the trap uses one
 of these elements and has an automatic reset, multiply the poison or alchemical item cost by 20 to provide an adequate supply of doses.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 Multiple Traps:}{\fs20\cf0 
 If a trap is really two or more connected traps, determine the final cost of each separately, then add those values together. This holds for both multiple dependent and multiple independent traps (see the previous section).
\par }{\b\fs21\cf0 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 
Table: Cost Modifiers for Mechanical Traps}{\b\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3515\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Feature}{
\b\fs19\cf0 \cell }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cost Modifier}{\b\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3515\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 Trigger Type}{\i\fs19\cf0 \cell \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3515\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\row }\pard 
\ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Location}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3515\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Proximity}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +1,000 gp}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3515\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\row }\pard 
\ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Touch}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3515\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Touch (attached)}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 100 gp}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3515\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\row }\pard 
\ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Timed}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +1,000 gp}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3515\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 Reset Type}{\i\fs19\cf0 \cell \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3515\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 No reset}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 500 gp}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3515\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\row }\pard 
\ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Repair}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 200 gp}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3515\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Manual}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3515\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\row }\pard 
\ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Automatic}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +500 gp (or 0 if trap has timed trigger)}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3515\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 Bypass Type}{\i\fs19\cf0 \cell \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3515\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Lock}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +100 gp (Open Lock DC 30)}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3515\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\row }\pard 
\ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Hidden switch}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +200 gp (Search DC 25)}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3515\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Hidden lock}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +300 gp (Open Lock DC 30, Search DC 25)}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3515\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx7271\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 Search DC}{\i\fs19\cf0 \cell \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3515\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx7271\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 19 or lower}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 100 gp x (20 \endash  DC)}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3515\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 20}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3515\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\row }\pard 
\ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 21 or higher}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +200 gp x (DC \endash  20)}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3515\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 Disable Device DC}{\i\fs19\cf0 \cell \cell 
}\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3515\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 19 or lower}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 100 gp x (20 \endash  DC)}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3515\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\row }\pard 
\ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 20}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3515\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 21 or higher}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +200 gp x (DC \endash  20)}{
\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3515\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 
Reflex Save DC (Pit or Other Save-Dependent Trap)}{\i\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3515\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\pard 
\ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 19 or lower}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 100 gp x (20 \endash  DC)}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3515\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 20}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3515\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\row }\pard 
\ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 21 or higher}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +300 gp x (DC \endash  20)}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3515\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 
Attack Bonus (Melee or Ranged Attack Trap)}{\i\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3515\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\pard 
\ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +9 or lower}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 100 gp x (10 \endash  bonus)}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3515\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +10}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3515\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\row }\pard 
\ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +11 or higher}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +200 gp x (bonus \endash  10)}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3515\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 Damage Bonus}{\i\fs19\cf0 \cell \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3515\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 High strength rating }{\fs20 
(ranged attack trap)}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +100 gp x bonus (max +4)}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3515\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 High Strength bonus (melee attack trap)}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +100 gp x bonus (max +8)}{
\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3515\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 Miscellaneous Features}{
\i\fs19\cf0 \cell \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3515\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Never miss}{\fs19\cf0 
\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +1,000 gp}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3515\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\row }\pard 
\ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Poison}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Cost of poison*}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3515\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Alchemical item}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Cost of item*}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3515\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\row }\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
* Multiply cost by 20 if trap features automatic reset.}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7271\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\fs21\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Magic Device Trap Cost
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 
Building a magic device trap involves the expenditure of experience points as well as gold pieces, and requires the services of a spellcaster. Table: Cost Modifiers f
or Magic Device Traps summarizes the cost information for magic device traps. If the trap uses more than one spell (for instance, a sound or visual trigger spell in addition to the main spell effect), the builder must pay for them all (except }{
\i\fs20\cf0 alarm}{\fs20\cf0 , which is free unless it must be cast by an NPC; see below).
\par The costs derived from Table: Cost Modifiers for Magic Device Traps assume that the builder is casting the necessary spells himself (or perhaps some other PC is providing the spells for free). If an NPC
 spellcaster must be hired to cast them those costs must be factored in as well.
\par A magic device trap takes one day to construct per 500 gp of its cost.
\par }{\b\fs21\cf0 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5926\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 
Table: Cost Modifiers for Magic Device Traps}{\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5926\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2242\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5926\pard\plain 
\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0 \b\fs19\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Feature}{\cell }{\fs20 Cost Modifier}{\cell }\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2242\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5926\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 Alarm }{\fs20\cf0 spell used in trigger}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash }{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2242\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5926\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 One-Shot Trap}{\i\fs19\cf0 \cell \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs19\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2242\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5926\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Each spell used in trap}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +50 gp x caster level x spell level,
\par +4 XP x caster level x spell level}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2242\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5926\row }\pard 
\ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Material components}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 + Cost of all material components}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2242\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5926\row }\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 XP components}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 + Total of XP components x 5 gp}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2242\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5926\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 Automatic Reset Trap}{\i\fs19\cf0 \cell \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2242\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5926\row }\pard 
\ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Each spell used in trap}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +500 gp x caster level x spell level,
\par +40 XP x caster level x spell level}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2242\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5926\row }\pard 
\ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Material components}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 + Cost of all material components x 100 gp}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2242\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5926\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2242\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5926\pard \ql \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20\cf0 XP components}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 + Total of XP components x 500 gp}{\fs19\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs19\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2242\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5926\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs21\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Spell Trap Cost
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 A spell trap has a cost only if the builder must hire an NPC spellcaster to cast it.
\par }{\fs21\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Craft DCs for Mechanical Traps
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 
Once you know the Challenge Rating of a trap determine the Craft (trapmaking) DC by referring to the table and the modifiers given below.
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx881\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1819 
\cellx2700\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Trap CR\cell Base Craft (Trapmaking) DC\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx881\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1819 \cellx2700\row }\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx881\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1819 \cellx2700\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 1\endash 3\cell 20\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx881\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1819 \cellx2700\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 4\endash 6\cell 25\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx881\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1819 \cellx2700\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx881\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1819 \cellx2700\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 7\endash 10\cell 30\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx881\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1819 \cellx2700
\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2148\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1812 
\cellx3960\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Additional Components\cell Modifier to Craft (Trapmaking) DC\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2148\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1812 \cellx3960
\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2148\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1812 \cellx3960\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Proximity trigger\cell +5\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2148\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1812 \cellx3960\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2148\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1812 \cellx3960\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Automatic reset\cell +5\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2148\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1812 \cellx3960
\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Making the Checks: }{\fs20\cf0 
To determine how much progress a character makes on building a trap each week, that character makes a Craft (trapmaking) check. See the Craft skill description for details on Craft checks and the circumstances that can affect them.}{\cf0 
\par }}