{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New{\*\falt Courier};}{\f154\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f155\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f157\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f158\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f159\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f160\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f161\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f170\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f171\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr{\*\falt Courier};}{\f173\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek{\*\falt Courier};}{\f174\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f175\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier};}{\f176\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic){\*\falt Courier};}{\f177\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic{\*\falt Courier};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\pvpara\phmrg\posxc\posy180\dxfrtext180\dfrmtxtx180\dfrmtxty0\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{
\s2\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\pvpara\phmrg\posxc\posy180\dxfrtext180\dfrmtxtx180\dfrmtxty0\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{
\s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs46\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{\s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel4\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 5;}{\s9\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel8\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs17\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 9;}{\*\cs10 
\additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Body Text 2;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs19\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Body Text;}{\s17\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 Preformatted;}}{\info{\title CHAPTER 7: GLOSSARY}{\author AKSmith}{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2003\mo6\dy30\hr15\min1}{\revtim\yr2003\mo7\dy3\hr10\min9}{\version19}
{\edmins52}{\nofpages16}{\nofwords11418}{\nofchars65084}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws79927}{\vern8283}}\margl1080\margr1080\margt1080\margb1080 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1080\dgvorigin1080\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9
\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 
This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{\f0\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs46\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs36\cf0 TYPES, SUBTYPES, & SPECIAL ABILITIES
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Aberration Type:}{\fs20\cf0  An aberration has a bizarre anatomy, strange abilities, an alien mindset, or any combination of the three.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Features: }{\fs20\cf0 An aberration has the following features.
\par \emdash d8 Hit Dice.
\par \emdash Base attack bonus equal to 3/4 total Hit Dice (as cleric).
\par \emdash Good Will saves.
\par \emdash Skill points equal to (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Traits: }{\fs20\cf0 An aberration possesses the following traits (unless otherwise noted in a creature\rquote s entry).
\par \emdash Darkvision out to 60 feet.
\par \emdash Proficient with its natural weapons. If generally humanoid in form, proficient with all simple weapons and any weapon it is described as using.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cf0 \emdash Proficient with whatever type of armor (light, medium, or heavy) it is described as wearing, as well as all lig
hter types. Aberrations not indicated as wearing armor are not proficient with armor. Aberrations are proficient with shields if they are proficient with any form of armor.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 \emdash Aberrations eat, sleep, and breathe.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Ability Score Loss (Su):}{\fs20\cf0  Some attacks reduce the opponent\rquote s score in one or more abilities. This loss can be temporary (ability damage) or permanent (ability drain).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Ability Damage: }{\fs20\cf0 This attack damages an opponent\rquote s ability score. The creature\rquote s descriptive text gives the ability and the amount of d
amage. If an attack that causes ability damage scores a critical hit, it deals twice the indicated amount of damage (if the damage is expressed as a die range, roll two dice). Ability damage returns at the rate of 1 point per day for each affected ability
.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Ability Drain: }{\fs20\cf0 This effect permanently reduces a living opponent\rquote s ability score when the creature hits with a melee attack. The creature\rquote 
s descriptive text gives the ability and the amount drained. If an attack that causes ability drain scores a critical
 hit, it drains twice the indicated amount (if the damage is expressed as a die range, roll two dice). Unless otherwise specified in the creature\rquote 
s description, a draining creature gains 5 temporary hit points (10 on a critical hit) whenever it drains an ability score no matter how many points it drains. Temporary hit points gained in this fashion last for a maximum of 1 hour.
\par Some ability drain attacks allow a Fortitude save (DC 10 + 1/2 draining creature\rquote s racial HD + draining creature\rquote s Cha modifier; the exact DC is given in the creature\rquote 
s descriptive text). If no saving throw is mentioned, none is allowed.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Alternate Form (Su):}{\fs20\cf0  A creature with this special quality has the ability to assume one or more specific alternate forms. This ability works much like the }{\i\fs20\cf0 polymorph }{\fs20\cf0 
spell, except that the creature is limited to the forms specified, and does not regain any hit points for changing its form. Assuming an alternate form results in the following changes to the creature:
\par \emdash The creature retains the type and subtype of its original form. It gains the size of its new form.
\par \emdash The creature loses the natural weapons, natural armor, movement modes, and extraordinary special attacks of its original form.
\par \emdash The creature gains the natural weapons, natural armor, movement modes, and extraordinary special attacks of its new form.
\par \emdash The creature retains the special qualities of its original form. It does not gain any special qualities of its new form.
\par \emdash The creature retains the spell-like abilities and supernatural attacks of its old form (except for breath weapons and gaze attacks). It does not gain the spell-like abilities or supernatural attacks of its new form.
\par \emdash The creature gains the physical ability scores (Str, Dex, Con) of its new form. It retains the mental ability scores (Int, Wis, Cha) of its original form.
\par \emdash The creature retains its hit points and save bonuses, although its save modifiers may change due to a change in ability scores.
\par \emdash The creature retains any spellcasting ability it had in its original form, although it must be able to speak intelligibly to cast spells with verbal components and it must have humanlike hands to cast spells with somatic components.
\par \emdash The creature is effectively camouflaged as a creature of its new form, and it gains a +10 bonus on Disguise checks if it uses this ability to create a disguise.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Air Subtype:}{\fs20\cf0  This subtype usually is used for elementals and outsiders with a connection to the Elemental Plane Air. Air creatures always have fly speeds and usually have perfect maneuverability.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Angel Subtype:}{\fs20\cf0  Angels are a race of celestials, or good outsiders, native to the good-aligned Outer Planes.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Traits: }{\fs20\cf0 An angel possesses the following traits (unless otherwise noted in a creature\rquote s entry).
\par \emdash Darkvision out to 60 feet and low-light vision.
\par \emdash Immunity to acid, cold, and petrification.
\par \emdash Resistance to electricity 10 and fire 10.
\par \emdash  +4 racial bonus on saves against poison.
\par \emdash Protective Aura (Su): Against attacks made or effects created by evil creatures, }{\i\fs20\cf0 t}{\fs20\cf0 
his ability provides a +4 deflection bonus to AC and a +4 resistance bonus on saving throws to anyone within 20 feet of the angel. Otherwise, it functions as a }{\i\fs20\cf0 magic circle against evil }{\fs20\cf0 effect and a }{\i\fs20\cf0 
lesser globe of invulnerability, }{\fs20\cf0 both with a radius of 20 feet (caster level equals angel\rquote s HD). (The defensive benefits from the circle are not included in an angel\rquote s statistics block.) 
\par \emdash Tongues (Su): All angels can speak with any creature that has a language, as though using a }{\i\fs20\cf0 tongues }{\fs20\cf0 spell (caster level equal to angel\rquote s Hit Dice). This ability is always active.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Animal Type:}{\fs20\cf0  An animal is a living, nonhuman creature, usually a vertebrate with no magical abilities and no innate capacity for language or culture.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Features: }{\fs20\cf0 An animal has the following features (unless otherwise noted in a creature\rquote s entry).
\par \emdash d8 Hit Dice.
\par \emdash Base attack bonus equal to 3/4 total Hit Dice (as cleric).
\par \emdash Good Fortitude and Reflex saves (certain animals have different good saves).
\par \emdash Skill points equal to (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Traits: }{\fs20\cf0 An animal possesses the following traits (unless otherwise noted in a creature\rquote s entry).
\par \emdash Intelligence score of 1 or 2 (no creature with an Intelligence score of 3 or higher can be an animal).
\par \emdash Low-light vision.
\par \emdash Alignment: Always neutral.
\par \emdash Treasure: None.
\par \emdash Proficient with its natural weapons only. A noncombative herbivore uses its natural weapons as a secondary attack. Such attacks are made with a \endash 5 penalty on the creature\rquote s attack rolls, a
nd the animal receives only 1/2 its Strength modifier as a damage adjustment.
\par \emdash Proficient with no armor unless trained for war.
\par \emdash Animals eat, sleep, and breathe.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Aquatic Subtype:}{\fs20\cf0  These creatures always have swim speeds and thus can move in water without making Swim checks. An aquatic creature can breathe underwater. It cannot also breathe air unless it has the amphibious special quality. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Archon Subtype:}{\fs20\cf0  Archons are a race of celestials, or good outsiders, native to lawful good-aligned Outer Planes.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Traits: }{\fs20\cf0 An archon possesses the following traits (unless otherwise noted in a creature\rquote s entry).
\par \emdash Darkvision out to 60 feet and low-light vision.
\par \emdash Aura of Menace (Su): A righteous aura surrounds archons that fight or get angry. Any hostile creature within a 20-
foot radius of an archon must succeed on a Will save to resist its effects. The save DC varies with the type of archon, is Charisma-based, and includes a +2 racial bonus. Those who fail take a \endash 
2 penalty on attacks, AC, and saves for 24 hours or until they successfully hit the archon that generated the aura. A creature that has resisted or broken the effect cannot be affected again by the same archon\rquote s aura for 24 hours.
\par \emdash Immunity to electricity and petrification.
\par \emdash  +4 racial bonus on saves against poison.
\par \emdash Magic Circle against Evil (Su): A magic circle against evil effect always surrounds an archon (caster level equals the archon\rquote s Hit Dice). (The defensive benefits from the circle are not included in an archon\rquote s statistics block.)

\par \emdash Teleport (Su): Archons can use greater teleport at will, as the spell (caster level 14th), except that the creature can transport only itself and up to 50 pounds of objects.
\par \emdash Tongues (Su): All archons can speak with any creature that has a language, as though using a }{\i\fs20\cf0 tongues }{\fs20\cf0 spell (caster level 14th). This ability is always active.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Augmented Subtype:}{\fs20\cf0  A creature receives this subtype whenever something happens to change its original type. Some creatures (those with an inherited template) are born with this subtype; others acqu
ire it when they take on an acquired template. The augmented subtype is always paired with the creature\rquote s original type. A creature with the augmented subtype usually has the traits of its current type, but the features of its original type.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Blindsense (Ex):}{\fs20\cf0 
 Using nonvisual senses, such as acute smell or hearing, a creature with blindsense notices things it cannot see. The creature usually does not need to make Spot or Listen checks to pinpoint the location of a creature within range of its blindsense abil
ity, provided that it has line of effect to that creature. Any opponent the creature cannot see still has total concealment against the creature with blindsense, and the creature still has the normal miss chance when attacking foes that have concealment. 
Visibility still affects the movement of a creature with blindsense. A creature with blindsense is still denied its Dexterity bonus to Armor Class against attacks from creatures it cannot see.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Blindsight (Ex):}{\fs20\cf0  This ability is similar to blindsense, but is 
far more discerning. Using nonvisual senses, such as sensitivity to vibrations, keen smell, acute hearing, or echolocation, a creature with blindsight maneuvers and fights as well as a sighted creature. Invisibility, darkness, and most kinds of concealmen
t are irrelevant, though the creature must have line of effect to a creature or object to discern that creature or object. The ability\rquote s range is specified in the creature\rquote 
s descriptive text. The creature usually does not need to make Spot or Listen checks 
to notice creatures within range of its blindsight ability. Unless noted otherwise, blindsight is continuous, and the creature need do nothing to use it. Some forms of blindsight, however, must be triggered as a free action. If so, this is noted in the cr
eature\rquote s description. If a creature must trigger its blindsight ability, the creature gains the benefits of blindsight only during its turn.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Breath Weapon (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 A breath weapon attack usually deals damage and is often based on some type of energy.
\par Such breath weapons allow a Reflex save for half damage (DC 10 + 1/2 breathing creature\rquote s racial HD + breathing creature\rquote s Con modifier; the exact DC is given in the creature\rquote 
s descriptive text). A creature is immune to its own breath weapon unless otherwise noted. Some breath weapons allow a Fortitude save or a Will save instead of a Reflex save.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Change Shape (Su):}{\fs20\cf0  A creature with this special quality has the ability to assume the appearance of a specific creature or type of creature (usually a humanoid), but ret
ains most of its own physical qualities. A creature cannot change shape to a form more than one size category smaller or larger than its original form. Changing shape results in the following changes to the creature:
\par \emdash The creature retains the type and subtype of its original form. It gains the size of its new form.
\par \emdash The creature loses the natural weapons, movement modes, and extraordinary special attacks of its original form.
\par \emdash The creature gains the natural weapons, movement modes, and extraordinary special attacks of its new form.
\par \emdash The creature retains all other special attacks and qualities of its original form, except for breath weapons and gaze attacks.
\par \emdash The creature retains the ability scores of its original form.
\par \emdash The creature retains its hit points and saves.
\par \emdash The creature retains any spellcasting ability it had in its original form, although it must be able to speak intelligibly to cast spells with verbal components and it must have humanlike hands to cast spells with somatic components.
\par \emdash The creature is effectively camouflaged as a creature of its new form, and gains a +10 bonus on Disguise checks if it uses this ability to create a disguise.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Chaotic Subtype: }{\fs20\cf0 A subtype usually applied only to outsiders native to the chaotic-aligned Outer Planes. Most
 creatures that have this subtype also have chaotic alignments; however, if their alignments change they still retain the subtype. Any effect that depends on alignment affects a creature with this subtype as if the creature has a chaotic alignment, no mat
t
er what its alignment actually is. The creature also suffers effects according to its actual alignment. A creature with the chaotic subtype overcomes damage reduction as if its natural weapons and any weapons it wields were chaotic-aligned (see Damage Red
uction, below).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Cold Subtype: }{\fs20\cf0 A creature with the cold subtype has immunity to cold. It has vulnerability to fire, which means it takes half again as much (+50%) damage as normal from fire, regardless of whether a saving throw is allowed, or if the save is
 a success or failure. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Constrict (Ex):}{\fs20\cf0  A creature with this special attack can crush an opponent, dealing bludgeoning damage, after making a successful grapple check. The amount of damage is given in the creature\rquote s entry. If the creature also has the imp
roved grab ability it deals constriction damage in addition to damage dealt by the weapon used to grab.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Construct Type: }{\fs20\cf0 A construct is an animated object or artificially constructed creature.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Features: }{\fs20\cf0 A construct has the following features.
\par \emdash 10-sided Hit Dice.
\par \emdash Base attack bonus equal to 3/4 total Hit Dice (as cleric).
\par \emdash No good saving throws.
\par \emdash Skill points equal to (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die, if the construct has an Intelligence score. However, most constructs are mindless and gain no skill points or feats.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Traits: }{\fs20\cf0 A construct possesses the following traits (unless otherwise noted in a creature\rquote s entry).
\par \emdash No Constitution score.
\par \emdash Low-light vision.
\par \emdash Darkvision out to 60 feet.
\par \emdash Immunity to all mind-affecting effects (charms, compulsions, phantasms, patterns, and morale effects).
\par \emdash Immunity to poison, sleep effects, paralysis, stunning, disease , death effects, and necromancy effects.
\par \emdash Cannot heal damage on their own, but often can be repaired by exposing them to a certain kind of effect (see the creature\rquote 
s description for details) or through the use of the Craft Construct feat. A construct with the fast healing special quality still benefits from that quality.
\par \emdash Not subject to critical hits, nonlethal damage, ability damage, ability drain, fatigue, exhaustion, or energy drain.
\par \emdash Immunity to any effect that requires a Fortitude save (unless the effect also works on objects, or is harmless).
\par \emdash Not at risk of death from massive damage. Immediately destroyed when reduced to 0 hit points or less.
\par \emdash Since it was never alive, a construct cannot be raised or resurrected.
\par \emdash Because its body is a mass of unliving matter, a construct is hard to destroy. It gains bonus hit points based on size, as shown on the following table.
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1358\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1162 
\cellx2520\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440 \cellx3960\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1080 \cellx5040\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Construct Size\cell 
}\pard\plain \s9\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel8\rin0\lin0 \b\fs17\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Bonus Hit Points\cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 
\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 Construct Size\cell }\pard\plain \s9\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel8\rin0\lin0 \b\fs17\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
Bonus Hit Points\cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1358\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1162 \cellx2520\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440 \cellx3960\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1080 \cellx5040\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1358\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1162 \cellx2520\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440 \cellx3960\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1080 \cellx5040\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Fine\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \emdash \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Large\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 30\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1358\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1162 \cellx2520\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440 \cellx3960
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1080 \cellx5040\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Diminutive\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
\emdash \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Huge\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 40\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1358\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1162 \cellx2520\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440 \cellx3960\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1080 \cellx5040\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Tiny\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \emdash \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Gargantuan\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 60\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1358\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1162 \cellx2520\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440 \cellx3960\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1080 \cellx5040\row 
}\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Small\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 10\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Colossal\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 80\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1358\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1162 \cellx2520
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440 \cellx3960\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1080 \cellx5040\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1358\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1162 \cellx2520\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440 \cellx3960\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1080 \cellx5040\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Medium\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 20\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1358\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1162 \cellx2520\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440 \cellx3960\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1080 \cellx5040\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\cf0 \emdash 
Proficient with its natural weapons only, unless generally humanoid in form, in which case proficient with any weapon mentioned in its entry.
\par \emdash Proficient with no armor.
\par \emdash Constructs do not eat, sleep, or breathe.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Damage Reduction (Ex or Su):}{\fs20\cf0  A creature wit
h this special quality ignores damage from most weapons and natural attacks. Wounds heal immediately, or the weapon bounces off harmlessly (in either case, the opponent knows the attack was ineffective). The creature takes normal damage from energy attack
s (even nonmagical ones), spells, spell-like abilities, and supernatural abilities. A certain kind of weapon can sometimes damage the creature normally, as noted below.
\par The entry indicates the amount of damage ignored (usually 5 to 15 points) and the type of weapon that negates the ability. 
\par Some monsters are vulnerable to piercing, bludgeoning, or slashing damage. 
\par Some monsters are vulnerable to certain materials, such as alchemical silver, adamantine, or cold-forged iron. Attacks from weapons that are not made of the correct material have their damage reduced, even if the weapon has an enhancement bonus.
\par Some monsters are vulnerable to magic weapons. Any weapon with at least a +1 magical enhancement bonus on attack and damage rolls overcomes the damage reduction of these monsters. Such creatures\rquote 
 natural weapons (but not their attacks with weapons) are treated as magic weapons for the purpose of overcoming damage reduction.
\par A few very powerful monsters are vulnerable only to epic weapons; that is, magic weapons with at least a +6 enhancement bonus. Such creatures\rquote  natural weapons are also treated as epic weapons for the purpose of overcoming damage reduction.
\par Some monsters are vulnerable to chaotic-, evil-, good-, or lawful-aligned weapons. When a cleric casts }{\i\fs20\cf0 align weapon, }{\fs20\cf0 
affected weapons might gain one or more of these properties, and certain magic weapons have these properties as well. A creature with an alignment subtype (chaotic, evil, good, or lawful) can overcome this type of damage reduction with its
 natural weapons and weapons it wields as if the weapons or natural weapons had an alignment (or alignments) that match the subtype(s) of the creature. 
\par When a damage reduction entry has a dash (\endash ) after the slash, no weapon negates the damage reduction.
\par A few creatures are harmed by more than one kind of weapon. A weapon of either type overcomes this damage reduction.
\par A few other creatures require combinations of different types of attacks to overcome their damage reduction. A weapon must be both types to overcome this damage reduction. A weapon that is only one type is still subject to damage reduction.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Dragon Type:}{\fs20\cf0  A dragon is a reptilelike creature, usually winged, with magical or unusual abilities.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Features: }{\fs20\cf0 A dragon has the following features.
\par \emdash 12-sided Hit Dice.
\par \emdash Base attack bonus equal to total Hit Dice (as fighter).
\par \emdash Good Fortitude, Reflex, and Will saves.
\par \emdash Skill points equal to (6 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Traits: }{\fs20\cf0 A dragon possesses the following traits (unless otherwise noted in the description of a particular kind).
\par \emdash Darkvision out to 60 feet and low-light vision.
\par \emdash Immunity to magic sleep effects and paralysis effects.
\par \emdash Proficient with its natural weapons only unless humanoid in form (or capable of assuming humanoid form), in which case proficient with all simple weapons and any weapons mentioned in its entry.
\par \emdash Proficient with no armor.
\par \emdash Dragons eat, sleep, and breathe.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Earth Subtype:}{\fs20\cf0  This subtype usually is used for elementals and outsiders with a connection to the Elemental Plane of Earth. Earth creatures usually have burrow speeds, and most earth creatures can burrow through solid rock.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Elemental Type:}{\fs20\cf0  An elemental is a being composed of one of the four classical elements: air, earth, fire, or water.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Features: }{\fs20\cf0 An elemental has the following features.
\par \emdash 8-sided Hit Dice.
\par \emdash Base attack bonus equal to 3/4 total Hit Dice (as cleric).
\par \emdash Good saves depend on the element: Fortitude (earth, water) or Reflex (air, fire).
\par \emdash Skill points equal to (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Traits: }{\fs20\cf0 An elemental possesses the following traits (unless otherwise noted in a creature\rquote s entry).
\par \emdash Darkvision out to 60 feet.
\par \emdash Immunity to poison, sleep effects, paralysis, and stunning.
\par \emdash Not subject to critical hits or flanking.
\par \emdash Unlike most other living creatures, an elemental does not have a dual nature\emdash its soul and body form one unit. When an elemental is slain, no soul is set loose. Spells that restore souls to their bodies, such as }{\i\fs20\cf0 
raise dead, reincarnate, }{\fs20\cf0 and }{\i\fs20\cf0 resurrection, }{\fs20\cf0 don\rquote t work on an elemental. It takes a different magical effect, such as }{\i\fs20\cf0 limited wish, wish, miracle, }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 true resurrection, }{
\fs20\cf0 to restore it to life.
\par \emdash Proficient with natural weapons only, unless generally humanoid in form, in which case proficient with all simple weapons and any weapons mentioned in its entry.
\par \emdash Proficient with whatever ty
pe of armor (light, medium, or heavy) that it is described as wearing, as well as all lighter types. Elementals not indicated as wearing armor are not proficient with armor. Elementals are proficient with shields if they are proficient with any form of ar
mor.
\par \emdash Elementals do not eat, sleep, or breathe.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Energy Drain (Su):}{\fs20\cf0  This attack saps a living opponent\rquote s vital energy and happens automatically when a melee or ranged attack hits. Each successful energy drain bestows one or more negative levels (the creature\rquote 
s description specifies how many). If an attack that includes an energy drain scores a critical hit, it drains twice the given amount. Unless otherwise specified in the creature\rquote 
s description, a draining creature gains 5 temporary hit points (10 on a critical hit) for each negative level it bestows on an opponent. These temporary hit points last for a maximum of 1 hour. An affected opponent takes a \endash 
1 penalty on all skill checks and ability checks, attack rolls, and saving throws, and loses one effective 
level or Hit Die (whenever level is used in a die roll or calculation) for each negative level. A spellcaster loses one spell slot of the highest level of spells she can cast and (if applicable) one prepared spell of that level; this loss persists until t
he negative level is removed. Negative levels remain until 24 hours have passed or until they are removed with a spell, such as }{\i\fs20\cf0 restoration}{\fs20\cf0 
. If a negative level is not removed before 24 hours have passed, the affected creature must attempt a Fortitude save (DC 10 + 1/2 draining creature\rquote s racial HD + draining creature\rquote s Cha modifier; the exact DC is given in the creature
\rquote s descriptive text). On a success, the negative level goes away with no harm to the creature. On a failure, the negative level goes away, but the creature\rquote 
s level is also reduced by one. A separate saving throw is required for each negative level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Evil Subtype: }{\fs20\cf0 A subtype usually applied only to outsiders native to the evil-aligned Outer Planes. Evil outsiders are also called fiends. Most cre
atures that have this subtype also have evil alignments; however, if their alignments change, they still retain the subtype. Any effect that depends on alignment affects a creature with this subtype as if the creature has an evil alignment, no matter what
 
its alignment actually is. The creature also suffers effects according to its actual alignment. A creature with the evil subtype overcomes damage reduction as if its natural weapons and any weapons it wields were evil-aligned (see Damage Reduction, above)
.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Extraplanar Subtype:}{\fs20\cf0 
 A subtype applied to any creature when it is on a plane other than its native plane. A creature that travels the planes can gain or lose this subtype as it goes from plane to plane. Monster entries assume that encounters with creatur
es take place on the Material Plane, and every creature whose native plane is not the Material Plane has the extraplanar subtype (but would not have when on its home plane). Every extraplanar creature in this book has a home plane mentioned in its descrip
t
ion. Creatures not labeled as extraplanar are natives of the Material Plane, and they gain the extraplanar subtype if they leave the Material Plane. No creature has the extraplanar subtype when it is on a transitive plane, such as the Astral Plane, the Et
hereal Plane, and the Plane of Shadow.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Fast Healing (Ex):}{\fs20\cf0  A creature with the fast healing special quality regains hit points at an exceptionally fast rate, usually 1 or more hit points per round, as given in the creature\rquote s entry. Except where noted here, 
fast healing is just like natural healing. Fast healing does not restore hit points lost from starvation, thirst, or suffocation, and it does not allow a creature to regrow lost body parts. Unless otherwise stated, it does not allow lost body parts to be 
reattached.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Fear (Su or Sp):}{\fs20\cf0  Fear attacks can have various effects.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Fear Aura (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 The use of this ability is a free action. The aura can freeze an opponent (such as a mummy\rquote s despair) or function like the }{\i\fs20\cf0 fear }{\fs20\cf0 spell. Other effects are possible. A fear au
ra is an area effect. The descriptive text gives the size and kind of area.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Fear Cones (Sp) and Rays (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 These effects usually work like the }{\i\fs20\cf0 fear }{\fs20\cf0 spell. 
\par If a fear effect allows a saving throw, it is a Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 fearsome creature\rquote s racial HD + creature\rquote s Cha modifier; the exact DC is given in the creature\rquote 
s descriptive text). All fear attacks are mind-affecting fear effects.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Fey Type:}{\fs20\cf0  A fey is a creature with supernatural abilities and connections to nature or to some other force or place. Fey are usually human-shaped.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Features: }{\fs20\cf0 A fey has the following features.
\par \emdash 6-sided Hit Dice.
\par \emdash Base attack bonus equal to 1/2 total Hit Dice (as wizard).
\par \emdash Good Reflex and Will saves.
\par \emdash Skill points equal to (6 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Traits: }{\fs20\cf0 A fey possesses the following traits (unless otherwise noted in a creature\rquote s entry).
\par \emdash Low-light vision.
\par \emdash Proficient with all simple weapons and any weapons mentioned in its entry.
\par \emdash Proficient with whatever type of armor (light, medium, or heavy) that it is described as wearing, as well as all lighter types. Fey not indicated as wearing armor are not proficient with armor. Fey are profi
cient with shields if they are proficient with any form of armor.
\par \emdash Fey eat, sleep, and breathe.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Fire Subtype:}{\fs20\cf0  A creature with the fire subtype has immunity to fire. It has vulnerability to cold, which means it takes half again as much (+50%) damage as nor
mal from cold, regardless of whether a saving throw is allowed, or if the save is a success or failure.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Flight (Ex or Su):}{\fs20\cf0  A creature with this ability can cease or resume flight as a free action. If the ability is supernatural, it becomes ineffective in 
an antimagic field, and the creature loses its ability to fly for as long as the antimagic effect persists.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Frightful Presence (Ex):}{\fs20\cf0  This special quality makes a creature\rquote s very presence unsettling to foes. It takes effect automatically when the creature 
performs some sort of dramatic action (such as charging, attacking, or snarling). Opponents within range who witness the action may become frightened or shaken. Actions required to trigger the ability are given in the creature\rquote 
s descriptive text. The range
 is usually 30 feet, and the duration is usually 5d6 rounds. This ability affects only opponents with fewer Hit Dice or levels than the creature has. An affected opponent can resist the effects with a successful Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 frightful creature
\rquote s racial HD + frightful creature\rquote s Cha modifier; the exact DC is given in the creature\rquote s descriptive text). An opponent that succeeds on the saving throw is immune to that same creature\rquote 
s frightful presence for 24 hours. Frightful presence is a mind-affecting fear effect. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Gaze (Su):}{\fs20\cf0  A gaze special attack takes effect when opponents look at the creature\rquote s eyes. The attack can have almost any sort of effect: petrification, death, charm, and so on. The typical range is 30 feet, but check the creature
\rquote s entry for details. The type of saving throw for a gaze attack varies, but it is usually a Will or Fortitude save (DC 10 + 1/2 gazing creature\rquote s racial HD + gazing creature\rquote s Cha modifier; the exact DC is given in the creature
\rquote s descriptive text). A successful saving throw negates the effect. A monster\rquote 
s gaze attack is described in abbreviated form in its description. Each opponent within range of a gaze attack must attempt a saving throw each round at the beginning of his or her turn in the initiative order. Only 
looking directly at a creature with a gaze attack leaves an opponent vulnerable. Opponents can avoid the need to make the saving throw by not looking at the creature, in one of two ways. 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Averting Eyes: }{\fs20\cf0 The opponent avoids looking at the creature\rquote s face, i
nstead looking at its body, watching its shadow, tracking it in a reflective surface, and so on. Each round, the opponent has a 50% chance to not need to make a saving throw against the gaze attack. The creature with the gaze attack, however, gains concea
lment against that opponent.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Wearing a Blindfold: }{\fs20\cf0 The opponent cannot see the creature at all (also possible to achieve by turning one\rquote s back on the creature or shutting one\rquote 
s eyes). The creature with the gaze attack gains total concealment against the opponent. 
\par A creature with a gaze attack can actively gaze as an attack action by choosing a target within range. That opponent must attempt a saving throw but can try to avoid this as described above. Thus, it is possible for an opponent to save against a creature
\rquote s gaze twice during the same round, once before the opponent\rquote s action and once during the creature\rquote s turn. 
\par Gaze attacks can affect ethereal opponents. A creature is immune to gaze attacks of others of its kind unless otherwise noted.
\par Allies of a creature with a gaze attack might be affected. All the creature\rquote 
s allies are considered to be averting their eyes from the creature with the gaze attack, and have a 50% chance to not need to make a saving throw against the gaze attack each round. The creature also can veil its eyes, thus negating its gaze ability.

\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Giant Type:}{\fs20\cf0  A giant is a humanoid-shaped creature of great strength, usually of at least Large size.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Features: }{\fs20\cf0 A giant has the following features.
\par \emdash 8-sided Hit Dice.
\par \emdash Base attack bonus equal to 3/4 total Hit Dice (as cleric).
\par \emdash Good Fortitude saves.
\par \emdash Skill points equal to (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Traits: }{\fs20\cf0 A giant possesses the following traits (unless otherwise noted in a creature\rquote s entry).
\par \emdash Low-light vision.
\par \emdash Proficient with all simple and martial weapons, as well as any natural weapons.
\par \emdash 
Proficient with whatever type of armor (light, medium or heavy) it is described as wearing, as well as all lighter types. Giants not described as wearing armor are not proficient with armor. Giants are proficient with shields if they are proficient with a
ny form of armor.
\par \emdash Giants eat, sleep, and breathe.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Goblinoid Subtype:}{\fs20\cf0  Goblinoids are stealthy humanoids who live by hunting and raiding and who all speak Goblin.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Good Subtype:}{\fs20\cf0  A subtype usually applied only to outsiders native to the good-aligned Outer Pl
anes. Most creatures that have this subtype also have good alignments; however, if their alignments change, they still retain the subtype. Any effect that depends on alignment affects a creature with this subtype as if the creature has a good alignment, n
o
 matter what its alignment actually is. The creature also suffers effects according to its actual alignment. A creature with the good subtype overcomes damage reduction as if its natural weapons and any weapons it wields were good-aligned (see Damage Redu
ction, above).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Humanoid Type: }{\fs20\cf0 A humanoid usually has two arms, two legs, and one head, or a humanlike
 torso, arms, and a head. Humanoids have few or no supernatural or extraordinary abilities, but most can speak and usually have well-developed societies. They usually are Small or Medium. Every humanoid creature also has a subtype.
\par Humanoids with 1 Hit Die exchange the features of their humanoid Hit Die for the class features of a PC or NPC class. Humanoids of this sort are presented as 1st-level warriors, which means that they have average combat ability and poor saving throws.

\par Humanoids with more than 1 Hit Die are the only humanoids who make use of the features of the humanoid type.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Features: }{\fs20\cf0 A humanoid has the following features (unless otherwise noted in a creature\rquote s entry).
\par \emdash 8-sided Hit Dice, or by character class.
\par \emdash Base attack bonus equal to 3/4 total Hit Dice (as cleric).
\par \emdash Good Reflex saves (usually; a humanoid\rquote s good save varies).
\par \emdash Skill points equal to (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die, or by character class.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Traits: }{\fs20\cf0 A humanoid possesses the following traits (unless otherwise noted in a creature\rquote s entry).
\par \emdash Proficient with all simple weapons, or by character class.
\par \emdash Proficient with whatever type of armor (light, medium, or heavy) it is described as wearing, or by character class. If a humanoid
 does not have a class and wears armor, it is proficient with that type of armor and all lighter types. Humanoids not indicated as wearing armor are not proficient with armor. Humanoids are proficient with shields if they are proficient with any form of a
rmor.
\par \emdash Humanoids breathe, eat, and sleep.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Improved Grab (Ex):}{\fs20\cf0  If a creature with this special atta
ck hits with a melee weapon (usually a claw or bite attack), it deals normal damage and attempts to start a grapple as a free action without provoking an attack of opportunity. No initial touch attack is required. Unless otherwise noted, improved grab wor
k
s only against opponents at least one size category smaller than the creature. The creature has the option to conduct the grapple normally, or simply use the part of its body it used in the improved grab to hold the opponent. If it chooses to do the latte
r, it takes a \endash 
20 penalty on grapple checks, but is not considered grappled itself; the creature does not lose its Dexterity bonus to AC, still threatens an area, and can use its remaining attacks against other opponents. A successful hold does not deal any
 extra damage unless the creature also has the constrict special attack. If the creature does not constrict, each successful grapple check it makes during successive rounds automatically deals the damage indicated for the attack that established the hold.
 Otherwise, it deals constriction damage as well (the amount is given in the creature\rquote 
s descriptive text). When a creature gets a hold after an improved grab attack, it pulls the opponent into its space. This act does not provoke attacks of opportunity. It 
can even move (possibly carrying away the opponent), provided it can drag the opponent\rquote s weight. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Incorporeal Subtype:}{\fs20\cf0  An incorporeal creature has no physical body. It can be harmed only by other incorporeal creatures, magic weapons or creatures that stri
ke as magic weapons, and spells, spell-like abilities, or supernatural abilities. It is immune to all nonmagical attack forms. Even when hit by spells or magic weapons, it has a 50% chance to ignore any damage from a corporeal source (except for positive 
energy, negative energy, force effects such as }{\i\fs20\cf0 magic missile, }{\fs20\cf0 or attacks made with }{\i\fs20\cf0 ghost touch }{\fs20\cf0 
weapons). Although it is not a magical attack, holy water can affect incorporeal undead, but a hit with holy water has a 50% chance of not affecting an incorporeal creature.
\par An incorporeal creature has no natural armor bonus but has a deflection bonus equal to its Charisma bonus (always at least +1, even if the creature\rquote s Charisma score does not normally provide a bonus). 
\par An incorporeal creature can enter or pass through solid objects, but must remain adjacent to the object\rquote 
s exterior, and so cannot pass entirely through an object whose space is larger than its own. It can sense the presence of creatures or objects within a square adjacent to its current location, 
but enemies have total concealment (50% miss chance) from an incorporeal creature that is inside an object. In order to see farther from the object it is in and attack normally, the incorporeal creature must emerge. An incorporeal creature inside an objec
t has total cover, but when it attacks a creature outside the object it only has cover, so a creature outside with a readied action could strike at it as it attacks. An incorporeal creature cannot pass through a force effect.
\par An incorporeal creature\rquote s attacks pass through (ignore) natural armor, armor, and shields, although deflection bonuses and force effects (such as }{\i\fs20\cf0 mage armor}{\fs20\cf0 
) work normally against it. Incorporeal creatures pass through and operate in water as easily as they do in air. Incorporeal creatu
res cannot fall or take falling damage. Incorporeal creatures cannot make trip or grapple attacks, nor can they be tripped or grappled. In fact, they cannot take any physical action that would move or manipulate an opponent or its equipment, nor are they 
subject to such actions. Incorporeal creatures have no weight and do not set off traps that are triggered by weight.
\par An incorporeal creature moves silently and cannot be heard with Listen checks if it doesn\rquote t wish to be. It has no Strength score, so its Dex
terity modifier applies to both its melee attacks and its ranged attacks. Nonvisual senses, such as scent and blindsight, are either ineffective or only partly effective with regard to incorporeal creatures. Incorporeal creatures have an innate sense of d
irection and can move at full speed even when they cannot see.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Lawful: }{\fs20\cf0 A subtype usually applied only to outsiders native to the lawful-aligned Outer Planes. Most creatures that have this subtype also have lawful alignments; however, if their alignments ch
ange, they still retain the subtype. Any effect that depends on alignment affects a creature with this subtype as if the creature has a lawful alignment, no matter what its alignment actually is. The creature also suffers effects according to its actual a
lignment. A creature with the lawful subtype overcomes damage reduction as if its natural weapons and any weapons it wields were lawful-aligned (see Damage Reduction, above).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Low-Light Vision (Ex):}{\fs20\cf0  A creature with low-light vision can see twice as far as a
 human in starlight, moonlight, torchlight, and similar conditions of shadowy illumination. It retains the ability to distinguish color and detail under these conditions.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Magical Beast Type:}{\fs20\cf0  Magical beasts are similar to animals but can have Intelligence scores higher than 2. Magical beasts usually have supernatural or extraordinary abilities, but sometimes are merely bizarre in appearance or habits.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Features: }{\fs20\cf0 A magical beast has the following features.
\par \emdash 10-sided Hit Dice.
\par \emdash Base attack bonus equal to total Hit Dice (as fighter).
\par \emdash Good Fortitude and Reflex saves.
\par \emdash Skill points equal to (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Traits: }{\fs20\cf0 A magical beast possesses the following traits (unless otherwise noted in a creature\rquote s entry).
\par \emdash Darkvision out to 60 feet and low-light vision.
\par \emdash Proficient with its natural weapons only.
\par \emdash Proficient with no armor.
\par \emdash Magical beasts eat, sleep, and breathe.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\b\fs20 Manufactured Weapons:}{\fs20  Some monsters employ manufactured weapons when they attack. Creatures that us
e swords, bows, spears, and the like follow the same rules as characters, including those for additional attacks from a high base attack bonus and two-weapon fighting penalties. This category also includes \'93found items,\'94
 such as rocks and logs, that a creature wields in combat\emdash  in essence, any weapon that is not intrinsic to the creature.
\par Some creatures combine attacks with natural and manufactured weapons when they make a full attack. When they do so, the manufactured weapon attack is considered the primary attack unless the creature\rquote 
s description indicates otherwise and any natural weapons the creature also uses are considered secondary natural attacks. These secondary attacks do not interfere with the primary attack as attacking with an off-hand weapon does, but they take the usual 
\endash 5 penalty (or \endash 2 with the Multiattack feat) for such attacks, even if the natural weapon used is normally the creature\rquote s primary natural weapon.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Monstrous Humanoid Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Monstrous humanoids are similar to humanoids, but with monstrous or animalistic features. They often have magical abilities as well.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Features: }{\fs20\cf0 A monstrous humanoid has the following features.
\par \emdash 8-sided Hit Dice.
\par \emdash Base attack bonus equal to total Hit Dice (as fighter).
\par \emdash Good Reflex and Will saves.
\par \emdash Skill points equal to (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Traits: }{\fs20\cf0 A monstrous humanoid possesses the following traits (unless otherwise noted in a creature\rquote s entry).
\par \emdash Darkvision out to 60 feet.
\par \emdash Proficient with all simple weapons and any weapons mentioned in its entry.
\par \emdash Proficient with whatever type of armor (light, medium, or heavy) it is described as wearing, as well as all lighter types. Monstrous humanoids not indicated as wearing armor are not p
roficient with armor. Monstrous humanoids are proficient with shields if they are proficient with any form of armor.
\par \emdash Monstrous humanoids eat, sleep, and breathe.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Movement Modes: }{\fs20\cf0 Creatures may have modes of movement other than walking and running. These are natural, not magical, unless specifically noted in a monster description.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Burrow: }{\fs20\cf0 A creature with a burrow speed can tunnel through dirt, but not through rock unless the descriptive text says otherwise. Creatures cannot charge or run while burrowing. Mo
st burrowing creatures do not leave behind tunnels other creatures can use (either because the material they tunnel through fills in behind them or because they do not actually dislocate any material when burrowing); see the individual creature descriptio
ns for details.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Climb: }{\fs20\cf0 
A creature with a climb speed has a +8 racial bonus on all Climb checks. The creature must make a Climb check to climb any wall or slope with a DC of more than 0, but it always can choose to take 10 even if rushed or threatened while 
climbing. The creature climbs at the given speed while climbing. If it chooses an accelerated climb it moves at double the given climb speed (or its base land speed, whichever is lower) and makes a single Climb check at a \endash 
5 penalty. Creatures cannot run while climbing. A creature retains its Dexterity bonus to Armor Class (if any) while climbing, and opponents get no special bonus on their attacks against a climbing creature.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Fly: }{\fs20\cf0 A creature with a fly speed can move through the air at the indicated speed 
if carrying no more than a light load. (Note that medium armor does not necessarily constitute a medium load.) All fly speeds include a parenthetical note indicating maneuverability, as follows:
\par \emdash Perfect: The creature can perform almost any aerial maneuver it wishes. It moves through the air as well as a human moves over smooth ground.
\par \emdash Good: The creature is very agile in the air (like a housefly or a hummingbird), but cannot change direction as readily as those with perfect maneuverability.
\par \emdash Average: The creature can fly as adroitly as a small bird. 
\par \emdash Poor: The creature flies as well as a very large bird.
\par \emdash Clumsy: The creature can barely maneuver at all.
\par A creature that flies can make dive attacks. A dive attack works just like a charge, but the diving crea
ture must move a minimum of 30 feet and descend at least 10 feet. It can make only claw or talon attacks, but these deal double damage. A creature can use the run action while flying, provided it flies in a straight line. }{\i\fs20\cf0 
\par Swim: }{\fs20\cf0 A creature with a swim spee
d can move through water at its swim speed without making Swim checks. It has a +8 racial bonus on any Swim check to perform some special action or avoid a hazard. The creature can always can choose to take 10 on a Swim check, even if distracted or endang
ered. The creature can use the run action while swimming, provided it swims in a straight line. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Native Subtype:}{\fs20\cf0  A subtype applied only to outsiders. These creatures have mortal ancestors or a strong connection to the Material Plane and can be raised, rein
carnated, or resurrected just as other living creatures can be. Creatures with this subtype are native to the Material Plane (hence the subtype\rquote s name). Unlike true outsiders, native outsiders need to eat and sleep. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Natural Weapons:}{\fs20\cf0  Natural weapons are w
eapons that are physically a part of a creature. A creature making a melee attack with a natural weapon is considered armed and does not provoke attacks of opportunity. Likewise, it threatens any space it can reach. Creatures do not receive additional att
acks from a high base attack bonus when using natural weapons. The number of attacks a creature can make with its natural weapons depends on the type of the attack\emdash 
generally, a creature can make one bite attack, one attack per claw or tentacle, one gore att
ack, one sting attack, or one slam attack (although Large creatures with arms or arm-like limbs can make a slam attack with each arm). Refer to the individual monster descriptions.
\par Unless otherwise noted, a natural weapon threatens a critical hit on a natural attack roll of 20.
\par When a creature has more than one natural weapon, one of them (or sometimes a pair or set of them) is the primary weapon. All the creature\rquote s remaining natural weapons are secondary. 
\par The primary weapon is given in the creature\rquote s Attack entry, and the primary weapon or weapons is given first in the creature\rquote s Full Attack entry. A creature\rquote 
s primary natural weapon is its most effective natural attack, usually by virtue of the creature\rquote s physiology, training, or innate talent with the weapon. An attack with a primary natural weapon uses the creature\rquote 
s full attack bonus. Attacks with secondary natural weapons are less effective and are made with a \endash 5 penalty on the attack roll, no matter how many there are. (Creatures with the Multiattack feat take only a \endash 
2 penalty on secondary attacks.) This penalty applies even when the creature makes a single attack with the secondary weapon as part of the attack action or as an attack of opportunity.
\par Natural weapons have types just as other weapons do. The most common are summarized below.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Bite: }{\fs20\cf0 The creature attacks with its mouth, dealing piercing, slashing, and bludgeoning damage.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Claw or Talon: }{\fs20\cf0 The creature rips with a sharp appendage, dealing piercing and slashing damage.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Gore: }{\fs20\cf0 The creature spears the opponent with an antler, horn, or similar appendage, dealing piercing damage.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Slap or Slam: }{\fs20\cf0 The creature batters opponents with an appendage, dealing bludgeoning damage.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Sting: }{\fs20\cf0 The creature stabs with a stinger, dealing piercing damage. Sting attacks usually deal damage from poison in addition to hit point damage.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Tentacle: }{\fs20\cf0 The creature flails at opponents with a powerful tentacle, dealing bludgeoning (and sometimes slashing) damage. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Nonabilities:}{\fs20\cf0  Some creatures lack certain ability scores. These creatures do not have an ability score of 0\emdash they lack the ability altogether. The modifier for a nonability is +0. Other effects of nonabilities are detailed below.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Strength: }{\fs20\cf0 Any creature that can physically manipulate other objects has at least 1 point of Strength. A creature with no Strength score can\rquote t exert force, usually because it has no physical body or because it doesn\rquote 
t move. The creature automatically fails Strength checks. If the creature can attack, it applies its Dexterity modifier to its base attack bonus instead of a Strength modifier.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Dexterity: }{\fs20\cf0 Any creature that can move has at least 1 point of Dexterity. A creature with no Dexterity score can\rquote t move. If it can perform actions (such as casting spells), it applies its Intellig
ence modifier to initiative checks instead of a Dexterity modifier. The creature automatically fails Reflex saves and Dexterity checks.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Constitution: }{\fs20\cf0 Any living creature has at least 1 point of Constitution. A creature with no Constitution has no body or n
o metabolism. It is immune to any effect that requires a Fortitude save unless the effect works on objects or is harmless. The creature is also immune to ability damage, ability drain, and energy drain, and automatically fails Constitution checks. A creat
ure with no Constitution cannot tire and thus can run indefinitely without tiring (unless the creature\rquote s description says it cannot run).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Intelligence: }{\fs20\cf0 Any creature that can think, learn, or remember has at least 1 point of Intelligence. A creature with no 
Intelligence score is mindless, an automaton operating on simple instincts or programmed instructions. It has immunity to mind-affecting effects (charms, compulsions, phantasms, patterns, and morale effects) and automatically fails Intelligence checks.

\par Mindless creatures do not gain feats or skills, although they may have bonus feats or racial skill bonuses.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Wisdom: }{\fs20\cf0 Any creature that can perceive its environment in any fashion has at least 1 point of Wisdom. Anything with no Wisdom score is an object, not a creature. Anything without a Wisdom score also has no Charisma score.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Charisma: }{\fs20\cf0 Any creature capable of telling the difference between itself and things that are not itself has at least 1 point of Charisma. Anything with no Charisma score is an object, no
t a creature. Anything without a Charisma score also has no Wisdom score.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Ooze Type:}{\fs20\cf0  An ooze is an amorphous or mutable creature, usually mindless.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Features: }{\fs20\cf0 An ooze has the following features.
\par \emdash 10-sided Hit Dice.
\par \emdash Base attack bonus equal to 3/4 total Hit Dice (as cleric).
\par \emdash No good saving throws.
\par \emdash Skill points equal to (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die, if the ooze has an Intelligence score. However, most oozes are mindless and gain no skill points or feats.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Traits: }{\fs20\cf0 An ooze possesses the following traits (unless otherwise noted in a creature\rquote s entry).
\par \emdash Mindless: No Intelligence score, and immunity to all mind-affecting effects (charms, compulsions, phantasms, patterns, and morale effects).
\par \emdash Blind (but have the blindsight special quality), with immunity to gaze attacks, visual effects, illusions, and other attack forms that rely on sight.
\par \emdash Immunity to poison, sleep effects, paralysis, polymorph, and stunning.
\par \emdash Some oozes have the ability to deal acid damage to objects. In such a case, the amount of damage is equal to 10 + 1/2 ooze\rquote s HD + ooze\rquote s Con modifier per full round of contact.
\par \emdash Not subject to critical hits or flanking.
\par \emdash Proficient with its natural weapons only.
\par \emdash Proficient with no armor.
\par \emdash Oozes eat and breathe, but do not sleep.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Outsider Type: }{\fs20\cf0 An outsider is at least partially composed of the essence (but not necessarily the material) of some plane other than the Material Plane. Some crea
tures start out as some other type and become outsiders when they attain a higher (or lower) state of spiritual existence.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Features: }{\fs20\cf0 An outsider has the following features.
\par \emdash 8-sided Hit Dice.
\par \emdash Base attack bonus equal to total Hit Dice (as fighter).
\par \emdash Good Fortitude, Reflex, and Will saves.
\par \emdash Skill points equal to (8 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Traits: }{\fs20\cf0 An outsider possesses the following traits (unless otherwise noted in a creature\rquote s entry).
\par \emdash Darkvision out to 60 feet.
\par \emdash Unlike most other living creatures, an outsider does not have a dual nature\emdash its soul and body form one unit. When an outsider is slain, no soul is set loose. Spells that restore souls to their bodies, such as }{\i\fs20\cf0 
raise dead, reincarnate, }{\fs20\cf0 and }{\i\fs20\cf0 resurrection, }{\fs20\cf0 don\rquote t work on an outsider. It takes a different magical effect, such as }{\i\fs20\cf0 limited wish, wish, miracle, }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 true resurrection }{
\fs20\cf0 to restore it to life. An outsider with the native subtype can be raised, reincarnated, or resurrected just as other living creatures can be.
\par \emdash Proficient with all simple and martial weapons and any weapons mentioned in its entry.
\par \emdash Proficient with whatever type of armor (light, medium, or heavy) it is described as wearing, as well as all lighter types. Outsiders not ind
icated as wearing armor are not proficient with armor. Outsiders are proficient with shields if they are proficient with any form of armor.
\par \emdash Outsiders breathe, but do not need to eat or sleep (although they can do so if they wish). Native outsiders breathe, eat, and sleep. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Paralysis (Ex or Su): }{\fs20\cf0 This special attack renders the victim immobile. Paralyzed creatures cannot move, speak, or take any physical actions. The creature is rooted to the spot, frozen and helpless. Paralysis works on the body, and a cha
racter can usually resist it with a Fortitude saving throw (the DC is given in the creature\rquote s description). Unlike }{\i\fs20\cf0 hold person }{\fs20\cf0 
and similar effects, a paralysis effect does not allow a new save each round. A winged creature flying in the air at the time that it is paralyzed cannot flap its wings and falls. A swimmer can\rquote t swim and may drown. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Plant Type:}{\fs20\cf0  This type comprises vegetable creatures. Note that regular plants, such as one finds growing in gardens and fields, lack Wisdom and Charisma scores (see No
nabilities, above) and are not creatures, but objects, even though they are alive. 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Features: }{\fs20\cf0 A plant creature has the following features. 
\par \emdash 8-sided Hit Dice.
\par \emdash Base attack bonus equal to 3/4 total Hit Dice (as cleric).
\par \emdash Good Fortitude saves.
\par \emdash Skill points equal to (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die, if the plant creature has an Intelligence score. However, some plant creatures are mindless and gain no skill points or feats.

\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Traits: }{\fs20\cf0 A plant creature possesses the following traits (unless otherwise noted in a creature\rquote s entry).
\par \emdash Low-light vision.
\par \emdash Immunity to all mind-affecting effects (charms, compulsions, phantasms, patterns, and morale effects).
\par \emdash Immunity to poison, sleep effects, paralysis, polymorph, and stunning.
\par \emdash Not subject to critical hits.
\par \emdash Proficient with its natural weapons only.
\par \emdash Proficient with no armor.
\par \emdash Plants breathe and eat, but do not sleep.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Poison (Ex):}{\fs20\cf0 
 Poison attacks deal initial damage, such as ability damage (see page 305) or some other effect, to the opponent on a failed Fortitude save. Unless otherwise noted, another saving throw is required 1 minute later (regardless of the first save\rquote 
s result) to avoid secondary damage. A creature\rquote s descriptive text provides the details.
\par A creature with a poison attack is immune to its own poison and the poison of others of its kind.
\par The Fortitude save DC against a poison attack is equal to 10 + 1/2 poisoning creature\rquote s racial HD + poisoning creature\rquote s Con modifier (the exact DC is given in the creature\rquote s descriptive text).
\par A successful save avoids (negates) the damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Pounce (Ex):}{\fs20\cf0  When a creature with this special attack makes a charge, it can follow with a full attack\emdash including rake attacks if the creature also has the rake ability.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Powerful Charge (Ex):}{\fs20\cf0  When a creature with this special attack makes a charge, its attack deals extra damage in addition to the normal benefits and hazards of a charge. The amount of damage from the attack is given in the creature\rquote 
s description.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Psionics (Sp):}{\fs20\cf0  These are spell-like abilities that a creature generates with the power of its mind. Psionic abilities are usually usable at will.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Rake (Ex):}{\fs20\cf0  A creature with this special atta
ck gains extra natural attacks when it grapples its foe. Normally, a monster can attack with only one of its natural weapons while grappling, but a monster with the rake ability usually gains two additional claw attacks that it can use only against a grap
pled foe. Rake attacks are not subject to the usual \endash 4 penalty for attacking with a natural weapon in a grapple.
\par A monster with the rake ability must begin its turn grappling to use its rake\emdash it can\rquote t begin a grapple and rake in the same turn.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Ray (Su or Sp):}{\fs20\cf0  This form of special attack works like a ranged attack. Hitting with a ray attack requires a successful ranged touch attack roll, ignoring armor, natural armor, and shield and using the creature\rquote 
s ranged attack bonus. Ray attacks have no range increment. The creature\rquote s descriptive text specifies the maximum range, effects, and any applicable saving throw.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Regeneration (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A creature with this ability is difficult to kill. Damage dealt to the creature is treated as nonlethal damage. The creature automa
tically heals nonlethal damage at a fixed rate per round, as given in the entry. Certain attack forms, typically fire and acid, deal lethal damage to the creature, which doesn\rquote t go away. The creature\rquote 
s descriptive text describes the details. A regenerating creature that has been rendered unconscious through nonlethal damage can be killed with a coup de grace. The attack cannot be of a type that automatically converts to nonlethal damage.
\par Attack forms that don\rquote t deal hit point damage ignore regeneration. Reg
eneration also does not restore hit points lost from starvation, thirst, or suffocation. Regenerating creatures can regrow lost portions of their bodies and can reattach severed limbs or body parts; details are in the creature\rquote 
s descriptive text. Severed parts that are not reattached wither and die normally.
\par A creature must have a Constitution score to have the regeneration ability.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Reptilian Subtype: }{\fs20\cf0 These creatures are scaly and usually coldblooded. The reptilian subtype is only used to describe a set of humanoid races, not all animals and monsters that are truly reptiles.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Resistance to Energy (Ex):}{\fs20\cf0  A creature with this special quality ignores some damage of the indicated type each time it takes damage of that kind (commonly acid, cold, fire, or electric
ity). The entry indicates the amount and type of damage ignored.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Scent (Ex):}{\fs20\cf0  This special quality allows a creature to detect approaching enemies, sniff out hidden foes, and track by sense of smell. Creatures with the scent ability can identify familiar odors just as humans do familiar sights.
\par The creature can detect opponents within 30 feet by sense of smell. If the opponent is upwind, the range increases to 60 feet; if downwind, it drops to 15 feet. Strong scents, such as smoke or rotting garbage, can be
 detected at twice the ranges noted above. Overpowering scents, such as skunk musk or troglodyte stench, can be detected at triple normal range.
\par When a creature detects a scent, the exact location of the source is not revealed\emdash only its presence somewhere within range. The creature can take a move action to note the direction of the scent.
\par Whenever the creature comes within 5 feet of the source, the creature pinpoints the source\rquote s location.
\par A creature with the Track feat and the scent ability can follow tracks by smell, making a Wisdom (or Survival) check to find or follow a track. The typical DC for a fresh trail is 10 (no matter what kind of surface holds the scent). This DC increases or d
ecreases depending on how strong the quarry\rquote 
s odor is, the number of creatures, and the age of the trail. For each hour that the trail is cold, the DC increases by 2. The ability otherwise follows the rules for the Track feat. Creatures tracking by scent ig
nore the effects of surface conditions and poor visibility. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Shapechanger Subtype:}{\fs20\cf0  A shapechanger has the supernatural ability to assume one or more alternate forms. Many magical effects allow some kind of shape shifting, and not every creature that can change shapes has the shapechanger subtype. 

\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Traits: }{\fs20\cf0 A shapechanger possesses the following traits (unless otherwise noted in a creature\rquote s entry).
\par \emdash Proficient with its natural weapons, with simple weapons, and with any weapons mentioned in the creature\rquote s description.
\par \emdash Proficient with any armor mentioned in the creature\rquote 
s description, as well as all lighter forms. If no form of armor is mentioned, the shapechanger is not proficient with armor. A shapechanger is proficient with shields if it is proficient with any type of armor.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Sonic Attacks (Su):}{\fs20\cf0  Unless otherwise noted, a sonic attack follows the rules for spreads. The range of the spread is measured from the creature using the sonic attack. Once a sonic attack has taken effect, deafening the subject or stop
ping its ears does not end the effect. Stopping one\rquote 
s ears ahead of time allows opponents to avoid having to make saving throws against mind-affecting sonic attacks, but not other kinds of sonic attacks (such as those that deal damage). Stopping one\rquote s ears
 is a full-round action and requires wax or other soundproof material to stuff into the ears.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Special Abilities:}{\fs20\cf0  A special ability is either extraordinary (Ex), spell-like (Sp), or supernatural (Su).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Extraordinary: }{\fs20\cf0 Extraordinary abilities are nonmagical, don\rquote t become ineffective in an }{\i\fs20\cf0 antimagic field, }{\fs20\cf0 
and are not subject to any effect that disrupts magic. Using an extraordinary ability is a free action unless otherwise noted.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Spell-Like: }{\fs20\cf0 Spell-like abilities are magical and work just like spells (though they are not spells and so have no verbal, somatic, material, focus, or XP components). They go away in an }{\i\fs20\cf0 antimagic field }{\fs20\cf0 
and are subject to spell resistance if the spell the ability resembles or duplicates would be subject to spell resistance.
\par A spell-like
 ability usually has a limit on how often it can be used. A spell-like ability that can be used at will has no use limit. Using a spell-like ability is a standard action unless noted otherwise, and doing so while threatened provokes attacks of opportunity
.
 It is possible to make a Concentration check to use a spell-like ability defensively and avoid provoking an attack of opportunity, just as when casting a spell. A spell-like ability can be disrupted just as a spell can be. Spell-like abilities cannot be 
used to counterspell, nor can they be counterspelled.
\par For creatures with spell-like abilities, a designated caster level defines how difficult it is to dispel their spell-like effects and to define any level-dependent variables (such as range and duration) the abilities might have. The creature\rquote 
s caster level never affects which spell-like abilities the creature has; sometimes the given caster level is lower than the level a spellcasting character would need to cast the spell of the same name. If no caster l
evel is specified, the caster level is equal to the creature\rquote s Hit Dice. The saving throw (if any) against a spell-like ability is 10 + the level of the spell the ability resembles or duplicates + the creature\rquote s Cha modifier.
\par Some spell-like abilities duplicate spells that work differently when cast by characters of different classes}{\i\fs20\cf0 . }{\fs20\cf0 A monster\rquote 
s spell-like abilities are presumed to be the sorcerer/wizard versions. If the spell in question is not a sorcerer/wizard spell, then default to cleric, druid, bard, paladin, and ranger, in that order.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Supernatural: }{\fs20\cf0 Supernatural abilities are magical and go away in an }{\i\fs20\cf0 antimagic field }{\fs20\cf0 
but are not subject to spell resistance. Supernatural abilities cannot be dispelled. Using a supernatural ability is a standard action u
nless noted otherwise. Supernatural abilities may have a use limit or be usable at will, just like spell-like abilities. However, supernatural abilities do not provoke attacks of opportunity and never require Concentration checks. Unless otherwise noted, 
a supernatural ability has an effective caster level equal to the creature\rquote s Hit Dice. The saving throw (if any) against a supernatural ability is 10 + 1/2 the creature\rquote s HD + the creature\rquote s ability modifier (usually Charisma).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Spell Immunity (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A creat
ure with spell immunity avoids the effects of spells and spell-like abilities that directly affect it. This works exactly like spell resistance, except that it cannot be overcome. Sometimes spell immunity is conditional or applies to only spells of a cert
ain kind or level. Spells that do not allow spell resistance are not affected by spell immunity.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Spell Resistance (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A creature with spell resistance can avoid the effects of spells and spell-like abilities that directly affect it.To determine if a spel
l or spell-like ability works against a creature with spell resistance, the caster must make a caster level check (1d20 + caster level). If the result equals or exceeds the creature\rquote 
s spell resistance, the spell works normally, although the creature is still allowed a saving throw.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Spells:}{\fs20\cf0  Sometimes a creature can cast arcane or divine spells just as a member of a spellcasting class can (and can activate magic items accordingly). Such creatures are subject to the same spellcasting rules that characters are
, except as follows. 
\par A spellcasting creature that lacks hands or arms can provide any somatic component a spell might require by moving its body. Such a creature also does need material components for its spells. The creature can cast the spell by either 
touching the required component (but not if the component is in another creature\rquote 
s possession) or having the required component on its person. Sometimes spellcasting creatures utilize the Eschew Materials feat to avoid fussing with noncostly components.
\par A 
spellcasting creature is not actually a member of a class unless its entry says so, and it does not gain any class abilities. A creature with access to cleric spells must prepare them in the normal manner and receives domain spells if noted, but it does n
ot receive domain granted powers unless it has at least one level in the cleric class.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 
\par Summon }{\b\fs20\cf0 (Sp):}{\fs20\cf0  A creature with the }{\i\fs20\cf0 summon }{\fs20\cf0 ability can summon specific other creatures of its kind much as though casting a }{\i\fs20\cf0 summon monster }{\fs20\cf0 spell, but it usually has only a 
limited chance of success (as specified in the creature\rquote 
s entry). Roll d%: On a failure, no creature answers the summons. Summoned creatures automatically return whence they came after 1 hour. A creature that has just been summoned cannot use its own summo
n ability for 1 hour. Most creatures with the ability to summon do not use it lightly, since it leaves them beholden to the summoned creature. In general, they use it only when necessary to save their own lives. An appropriate spell level is given for eac
h summoning ability for purposes of Concentration checks and attempts to dispel the summoned creature. No experience points are awarded for summoned monsters.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Swallow Whole (Ex):}{\fs20\cf0  If a creature with this special attack begins its turn with an opponent held 
in its mouth (see Improved Grab), it can attempt a new grapple check (as though attempting to pin the opponent). If it succeeds, it swallows its prey, and the opponent takes bite damage. Unless otherwise noted, the opponent can be up to one size category 
s
maller than the swallowing creature. Being swallowed has various consequences, depending on the creature doing the swallowing. A swallowed creature is considered to be grappled, while the creature that did the swallowing is not. A swallowed creature can t
r
y to cut its way free with any light slashing or piercing weapon (the amount of cutting damage required to get free is noted in the creature description), or it can just try to escape the grapple. The Armor Class of the interior of a creature that swallow
s whole is normally 10 + 1/2 its natural armor bonus, with no modifiers for size or Dexterity. If the swallowed creature escapes the grapple, success puts it back in the attacker\rquote s mouth, where it may be bitten or swallowed again.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Swarm Subtype:}{\fs20\cf0 
 A swarm is a collection of Fine, Diminutive, or Tiny creatures that acts as a single creature. A swarm has the characteristics of its type, except as noted here. A swarm has a single pool of Hit Dice and hit points, a single initiative modifier, a single
 
speed, and a single Armor Class. A swarm makes saving throws as a single creature. A single swarm occupies a square (if it is made up of nonflying creatures) or a cube (of flying creatures) 10 feet on a side, but its reach is 0 feet, like its component cr
eatures. In order to attack, it moves into an opponent\rquote 
s space, which provokes an attack of opportunity. It can occupy the same space as a creature of any size, since it crawls all over its prey. A swarm can move through squares occupied by enemies and vice
 versa without impediment, although the swarm provokes an attack of opportunity if it does so. A swarm can move through cracks or holes large enough for its component creatures.
\par A swarm of Tiny creatures consists of 300 nonflying creatures or 1,000 flying 
creatures. A swarm of Diminutive creatures consists of 1,500 nonflying creatures or 5,000 flying creatures. A swarm of Fine creatures consists of 10,000 creatures, whether they are flying or not. Swarms of nonflying creatures include many more creatures t
h
an could normally fit in a 10-foot square based on their normal space, because creatures in a swarm are packed tightly together and generally crawl over each other and their prey when moving or attacking. Larger swarms are represented by multiples of sing
le swarms. The area occupied by a large swarm is completely shapeable, though the swarm usually remains in contiguous squares.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Traits: }{\fs20\cf0 A swarm has no clear front or back and no discernable anatomy, so it is not subject to critical hits or flanking. A swarm 
made up of Tiny creatures takes half damage from slashing and piercing weapons. A swarm composed of Fine or Diminutive creatures is immune to all weapon damage. Reducing a swarm to 0 hit points or lower causes it to break up, though damage taken until tha
t point does not degrade its ability to attack or resist attack. Swarms are never staggered or reduced to a dying state by damage. Also, they cannot be tripped, grappled, or bull rushed, and they cannot grapple an opponent.
\par A swarm is immune to any spell or effect that targets a specific number of creatures (including single-target spells such as }{\i\fs20\cf0 disintegrate}{\fs20\cf0 
), with the exception of mind-affecting effects (charms, compulsions, phantasms, patterns, and morale effects) if the swarm has an Intelligence score an
d a hive mind. A swarm takes half again as much damage (+50%) from spells or effects that affect an area, such as splash weapons and many evocation spells.
\par Swarms made up of Diminutive or Fine creatures are susceptible to high winds such as that created by a }{\i\fs20\cf0 gust of wind }{\fs20\cf0 
spell. For purposes of determining the effects of wind on a swarm, treat the swarm as a creature of the same size as its constituent creatures. A swarm rendered unconscious by means of nonlethal damage becomes disorganized and dispersed, an
d does not reform until its hit points exceed its nonlethal damage.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Swarm Attack: }{\fs20\cf0 Creatures with the swarm subtype don\rquote t make standard melee attacks. Instead, they deal automatic damage to any creature whose space they occupy at the end of their move, with
 no attack roll needed. Swarm attacks are not subject to a miss chance for concealment or cover. A swarm\rquote s statistics block has \'93swarm\'94
 in the Attack and Full Attack entries, with no attack bonus given. The amount of damage a swarm deals is based on its Hit Dice, as shown below.
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1070\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3097\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Swarm HD\cell }\pard\plain \s9\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel8\rin0\lin0 \b\fs17\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Swarm Base Damage\cell 
}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1070\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3097\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1070\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3097\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 1\endash 5\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 1d6\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1070\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3097\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 6\endash 10\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 2d6\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1070\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3097\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 11\endash 15\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 3d6\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1070\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3097\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 16\endash 20\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 4d6\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1070\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3097\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1070\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3097\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 21 or more\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 5d6\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1070\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3097\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\cf0 A swarm\rquote s attacks are nonmagical, unless the swarm\rquote 
s description states otherwise. Damage reduction sufficient to reduce a swarm attack\rquote 
s damage to 0, being incorporeal, and other special abilities usually give a creature immunity (or at least resistance) to damage from a swarm. Some swarms also have acid, poison, blood drain, or other special attacks in addition to normal damage.
\par Swarms do not threaten creatures in their square, and do not make attacks of opportunity with their swarm attack. However, they distract foes whose squares they occupy, as described below.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Distraction (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Any living creature vulnerable to a swarm\rquote s damage that begins its turn with a swarm in its square is nauseated for 1 round; a Fortitude save (DC 10 + 1/2 swarm\rquote s HD + swarm\rquote 
s Con modifier; the exact DC is given in a swarm\rquote s description) negates the effect. Spellcasting or concentrating on spells within the area
 of a swarm requires a Concentration check (DC 20 + spell level). Using skills that involve patience and concentration requires a DC 20 Concentration check.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Telepathy (Su):}{\fs20\cf0  A creature with this ability can communicate telepathically with any other creature within a certain range (specified in the creature\rquote 
s entry, usually 100 feet) that has a language. It is possible to address multiple creatures at once telepathically, although maintaining a telepathic conversation with more than one creature at a time is
 just as difficult as simultaneously speaking and listening to multiple people at the same time.
\par Some creatures have a limited form of telepathy, while others have a more powerful form of the ability.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Trample (Ex):}{\fs20\cf0  As a full-round action, a creature with 
this special attack can move up to twice its speed and literally run over any opponents at least one size category smaller than itself. The creature merely has to move over the opponents in its path; any creature whose space is completely covered by the t
rampling creature\rquote s space is subject to the trample attack. If a target\rquote 
s space is larger than 5 feet, it is only considered trampled if the trampling creature moves over all the squares it occupies. If the trampling creature moves over only some of a target\rquote 
s space, the target can make an attack of opportunity against the trampling creature at a \endash 
4 penalty. A trampling creature that accidentally ends its movement in an illegal space returns to the last legal position it occupied, or the closest legal position, if there\rquote s a legal position that\rquote s closer.
\par A trample attack deals bludgeoning damage (the creature\rquote s slam damage + 1-1/2 times its Str modifier). The creature\rquote s descriptive text gives the exact amount.
\par Trampled opponents can attempt attacks of opportunity, but these take a \endash 4 penalty. If they do not make attacks of opportunity, trampled opponents can attempt Reflex saves to take half damage.
\par The save DC against a creature\rquote s trample attack is 10 + 1/2 creature\rquote s HD + creature\rquote s Str modifier (the exact DC is given in the creature\rquote 
s descriptive text). A trampling creature can only deal trampling damage to each target once per round, no matter how many times its movement takes it over a target creature.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Tremorsense (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A creature with tremorsense is sensi
tive to vibrations in the ground and can automatically pinpoint the location of anything that is in contact with the ground. Aquatic creatures with tremorsense can also sense the location of creatures moving through water. The ability\rquote 
s range is specified in the creature\rquote s descriptive text.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Treasure:}{\fs20\cf0  This entry in a monster description describes how much wealth a creature owns. In most cases, a creature keeps valuables in its home or lair and has no treasure with it when it travels. Intelligent creatures t
hat own useful, portable treasure (such as magic items) tend to carry and use these, leaving bulky items at home. Treasure can include coins, goods, and items. Creatures can have varying amounts of each, as follows.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Standard: }{\fs20\cf0 Refer to the treasure tables}{\i\fs20\cf0  }{\fs20\cf0 and roll d% once for each type of treasure (Coins, Goods, Items) on the Level section of the table that corresponds to the creature\rquote 
s Challenge Rating (for groups of creatures, use the Encounter Level for the encounter instead). Some creatures have double, triple, or even quadruple standard treasure; in these cases, roll for each type of treasure two, three, or four times.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 None: }{\fs20\cf0 The creature collects no treasure of its own.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Nonstandard: }{\fs20\cf0 Some creatures have quirks or habits that affect the types of treasure they collect. These creatures use the same
\par treasure tables, but with special adjustments.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Fractional Coins: }{\fs20\cf0 Roll on the Coins column in the section corresponding to the creature\rquote s Challenge Rating, but divide the result as indicated.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 % Goods or Items: }{\fs20\cf0 The creature has goods or items only some of the time. Before checking for goods or items, roll d% against the given percentage. On a success, make a normal roll on the appropriate Goods or
 Items column (which may still result in no goods or items).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Double Goods or Items: }{\fs20\cf0 Roll twice on the appropriate Goods or Items column.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Parenthetical Notes: }{\fs20\cf0 Some entries for goods or items include notes that limit the types of treasure a creature collects.
\par When a note includes the word \'93no,\'94 it means the creature does not collect or cannot keep that thing. If a random roll generates such a result, treat the result as \'93none\'94 instead. 
\par When a note includes the word \'93only,\'94 the creature goes out of its way to collect treasure of the indicated type. Treat all results from that column as the indicated type of treasure.
\par It\rquote s sometimes necessary to reroll until the right sort of item appears. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Turn Resistance (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A creature with this special quality (usually an undead) is less easily affected by clerics or paladins. When resolving a turn, rebuke, command, or bolster attempt, add the indicated number to the creature\rquote 
s Hit Dice total.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Undead Type:}{\fs20\cf0  Undead are once-living creatures animated by spiritual or supernatural forces.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Features: }{\fs20\cf0 An undead creature has the following features.
\par \emdash 12-sided Hit Dice.
\par \emdash Base attack bonus equal to 1/2 total Hit Dice (as wizard).
\par \emdash Good Will saves.
\par \emdash Skill points equal to (4 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die, if the undead creature has an Intelligence score. However, many undead are mindless and gain no skill points or feats.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Traits: }{\fs20\cf0 An undead creature possesses the following traits (unless otherwise noted in a creature\rquote s entry).
\par \emdash No Constitution score.
\par \emdash Darkvision out to 60 feet.
\par \emdash Immunity to all mind-affecting effects (charms, compulsions, phantasms, patterns, and morale effects).
\par \emdash Immunity to poison, sleep effects, paralysis, stunning, disease, and death effects.
\par \emdash Not subject to critical hits, nonlethal damage, ability drain, or energy drain. Immune to damage to its physical ability scores (Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution), as well as to fatigue and exhaustion effects.
\par \emdash Cannot heal damage on its own if it has no Intelligence score, although it can be healed. Negative energy (such as an }{\i\fs20\cf0 inflict }{\fs20\cf0 
spell) can heal undead creatures. The fast healing special quality works regardless of the creature\rquote s Intelligence score.
\par \emdash Immunity to any effect that requires a Fortitude save (unless the effect also works on objects or is harmless).
\par \emdash Uses its Charisma modifier for Concentration checks.
\par \emdash Not at risk of death from massive damage, but when reduced to 0 hit points or less, it is immediately destroyed.
\par \emdash Not affected by }{\i\fs20\cf0 raise dead }{\fs20\cf0 and }{\i\fs20\cf0 reincarnate }{\fs20\cf0 spells or abilities. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Resurrection }{\fs20\cf0 and }{\i\fs20\cf0 true resurrection }{\fs20\cf0 
can affect undead creatures. These spells turn undead creatures back into the living creatures they were before becoming undead.
\par \emdash Proficient with its natural weapons, all simple weapons, and any weapons mentioned in its entry.
\par \emdash Proficient with whatever type of armor (light, medium, or heavy) it is described as wearing, as well as all lighter types. Undead not indicated as wearing arm
or are not proficient with armor. Undead are proficient with shields if they are proficient with any form of armor.
\par \emdash Undead do not breathe, eat, or sleep.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Vermin Type:}{\fs20\cf0  This type includes insects, arachnids, other arthropods, worms, and similar invertebrates.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Features: }{\fs20\cf0 Vermin have the following features.
\par \emdash 8-sided Hit Dice.
\par \emdash Base attack bonus equal to 3/4 total Hit Dice (as cleric).
\par \emdash Good Fortitude saves.
\par \emdash Skill points equal to (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die, if the vermin has an Intelligence score. However, most vermin are mindless and gain no skill points or feats.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Traits: }{\fs20\cf0 Vermin possess the following traits (unless otherwise noted in a creature\rquote s entry).
\par \emdash Mindless: No Intelligence score, and immunity to all mind-affecting effects (charms, compulsions, phantasms, patterns, and morale effects).
\par \emdash Darkvision out to 60 feet.
\par \emdash Proficient with their natural weapons only.
\par \emdash Proficient with no armor.
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs19\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 \emdash Vermin breathe, eat, and sleep.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Vulnerability to Energy:}{\fs20\cf0 
 Some creatures have vulnerability to a certain kind of energy effect (typically either cold or fire). Such a creature takes half again as much (+50%) damage as normal from the effect, regardless of whether a saving throw is allowed, or if the save is a 
success or failure.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Water Subtype:}{\fs20\cf0  This subtype usually is used for elementals and outsiders with a connection to the Elemental Plane of Water. Creatures with the water subtype always have swim speeds and can move in water without making Swim checks. A wa
ter creature can breathe underwater and usually can breathe air as well. 
\par }}